Name,Type,Rarity,Price,Type2,Description,Found1,Found2
Spell Scroll,Scroll,,,,"A spell scroll bears the words of a single spell, written in a mystical cipher. If the spell is on your class's spell list, you can read the scroll and cast its spell without providing any material components. Otherwise, the scroll is unintelligible. Casting the spell by reading the scroll requires the spell's normal casting time. Once the spell is cast, the words on the scroll fade, and it crumbles to dust. If the casting is interrupted, the scroll is not lost. If the spell is on your class's spell list but of a higher level than you can normally cast, you must make an ability check using your spellcasting ability to determine whether you cast it successfully. The DC equals 10 + the spell's level. On a failed check, the spell disappears from the scroll with no other effect. The level of the spell on the scroll determines the spell's saving throw DC and attack bonus, as well as the scroll's rarity, as shown in the Spell Scroll table. https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/om.php?vo=spell-scroll ",,
Potion of healing,Potion,Common,50 gp,,"Light red potion. If observed very closely, tiny light sparks can be observed in the liquid. 2d4 + 2 Healing",Torb's and D20,"D20, Torb's, Traveler"
Perfume of bewitching,Wondrous item,Common,100 gp,,"This tiny vial contains magic perfume, enough for one use. You can use an action to apply the perfume to yourself, and its effect lasts 1 hour. For the duration, you have advantage on all Charisma checks directed at humanoids of challenge rating 1 or lower. Those subjected to the perfume's effect are not aware that they've been influenced by magic.","Crannoc Siever, Mayor of Caer Dineval, uses it.",
Charlatan's dice,Wondrous item,Common,50 gp,Attunement,"Almost too ordinary-looking wooden die. Has a brownish stain on one corner - perhaps blood? Whenever you roll this six-sided die, you can control which number it rolls.",D20,D20
Pipe of smoke monsters,Wondrous items,Common,75 gp,,"Long and thin scrimshaw smoking pipe. While smoking this pipe, you can use an action to exhale a puff of smoke that takes the form of a single creature, such as a dragon, a Rumph, or a froghemoth. The form must be small enough to fit in a 1-foot cube and loses its shape after a few seconds, becoming an ordinary puff of smoke.",D20,Helmi
Shirt of gleaming,Armor (chain shirt),Common,50 gp,,AC 13 + Dex modifier (max 2) This shimmery chain shirt flows on you like a cristalling waterfall. It is ornate with flowery patterns of the same metal around the collar and the bottom. This armor never gets dirty.,Torb's,
Potion of Climbing,Wondrous item,Common,40 gp,,"When you drink this potion, you gain a climbing speed equal to your walking speed for 1 hour. During this time, you have advantage on Strength (Athletics) checks you make to climb. The potion is separated into brown, silver, and gray layers resembling bands of stone. Shaking the bottle fails to mix the colors.",Frozenfar,
Green Elemental Gem,Wondrous item,Common,90 gp,,"This gem contains a mote of elemental energy. When you use an action to break the gem, a water elemental is summoned as if you had cast the conjure elemental spell, and the gem's magic is lost. ",D20,D20
Blue Elemental Gem,Wondrous item,Common,90 gp,,"This gem contains a mote of elemental energy. When you use an action to break the gem, an air elemental is summoned as if you had cast the conjure elemental spell, and the gem's magic is lost. ",Fyodor has it,D20
Yellow Elemental Gem,Wondrous item,Common,90 gp,,"This gem contains a mote of elemental energy. When you use an action to break the gem, an earth elemental is summoned as if you had cast the conjure elemental spell, and the gem's magic is lost. ",,
Red Elemental Gem,Wondrous item,Common,90 gp,,"This gem contains a mote of elemental energy. When you use an action to break the gem, a fire elemental is summoned as if you had cast the conjure elemental spell, and the gem's magic is lost. ",,
Pot of awakening,Wondrous item,Common,40 gp,,"If you plant an ordinary shrub in this 10-pound clay pot and let it grow for 30 days, the shrub magically transforms into an awakened shrub (see the Monster Manual for statistics) at the end of that time. When the shrub awakens, its roots break the pot, destroying it. The awakened shrub is friendly toward you. Absent commands from you, it does nothing.",Half-moon tomb where Helmi lived in the elven tomb in Lonelywood forest.,
Potion of greater healing,Potion,Uncommon,200 gp,,"Red potion. Upon close observation, light sparks can be seen in the liquid. 4d4 + 4 Healing",Torb's,D20
Potion of Poison,Potion,Uncommon,300 gp,,"This concoction looks, smells, and tastes like a potion of healing or other beneficial potion. However, it is actually poison masked by illusion magic. An identify spell reveals its true nature. If you drink it, you take 3d6 poison damage, and you must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned. At the start of each of your turns while you are poisoned in this way, you take 3d6 poison damage. At the end of each of your turns, you can repeat the saving throw. On a successful save, the poison damage you take on your subsequent turns decreases by 1d6. The poison ends when the damage decreases to 0.",Torb's,D20
Dust of Sneezing and Choking,Wondrous item,Uncommon,300 gp,,"Found in a small container, this powder resembles very fine sand. It appears to be dust of disappearance, and an identify spell reveals it to be such. There is enough of it for one use. When you use an action to throw a handful of the dust into the air, you and each creature that needs to breathe within 30 feet of you must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or become unable to breathe, while sneezing uncontrollably. A creature affected in this way is incapacitated and suffocating. As long as it is conscious, a creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on it on a success. The lesser restoration spell can also end the effect on a creature.",Torb's,D20
Weirdling's Tea,Drug (tea),Uncommon,200 gp / 100 g,,"A tea that shifts in color from orange to blue, when drank the user sees the effect of a roll on the wild magic table. (This is however just a hallucination)",Torb's,D20
Potion of Resistance,Potion,Uncommon,220 gp,,"When you drink this potion, you gain resistance to one type of damage for 1 hour. The DM chooses the type or determines it randomly from the options below. https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/om.php?vo=potion-of-resistance ",,
Potion of Cold Resistance,Potion,Uncommon,400 gp,,"When you drink this potion, you gain resistance to cold damage for 1 hour.",,D20
Crossbow bolts +1,Amunition,Uncommon,250 gp,,"You have a bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this piece of magic ammunition. The bonus is determined by the rarity of the ammunition. Once it hits a target, the ammunition is no longer magical.",Torb's,
Arrows +1,Amunition,Uncommon,50 gp,,"You have a bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this piece of magic ammunition. The bonus is determined by the rarity of the ammunition. Once it hits a target, the ammunition is no longer magical.",,
Potion of Growth,Potion,Uncommon,200 gp,,"When you drink this potion, you gain the ""enlarge"" effect of the enlarge/reduce spell for 1d4 hours (no concentration required). The red in the potion's liquid continuously expands from a tiny bead to color the clear liquid around it and then contracts. Shaking the bottle fails to interrupt this process.",,
Dust of Dryness,Wondrous item,Uncommon,200 gp,,"This small packet contains 1d6 pinches of dust. You can use an action to sprinkle a pinch of it over water. The dust turns a cube of water 15 feet on a side into one marble-sized pellet, which floats or rests near where the dust was sprinkled. The pellet's weight is negligible. Someone can use an action to smash the pellet against a hard surface, causing the pellet to shatter and release the water the dust absorbed. Doing so ends that pellet's magic. An elemental composed mostly of water that is exposed to a pinch of the dust must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw, taking 10d6 necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.",Traveler,
Oil of Slipperiness,Potion,Uncommon,200 gp,,"This sticky black unguent is thick and heavy in the container, but it flows quickly when poured. The oil can cover a Medium or smaller creature, along with the equipment it's wearing and carrying (one additional vial is required for each size category above Medium). Applying the oil takes 10 minutes. The affected creature then gains the effect of a freedom of movement spell for 8 hours. Alternatively, the oil can be poured on the ground as an action, where it covers a 10-foot square, duplicating the effect of the grease spell in that area for 8 hours.",Traveler,
Dust of Disappearance,Wondrous item,Uncommon,500 gp,,"Found in a small packet, this powder resembles very fine sand. There is enough of it for one use. When you use an action to throw the dust into the air, you and each creature and object within 10 feet of you become invisible for 2d4 minutes. The duration is the same for all subjects, and the dust is consumed when its magic takes effect. If a creature affected by the dust attacks or casts a spell, the invisibility ends for that creature.",Traveler,D20
Potion of Water Breathing,Potion,Uncommon,250 gp,,You can breathe underwater for 1 hour after drinking this potion. Its cloudy green fluid smells of the sea and has a jellyfish-like bubble floating in it.,Traveler,
Philter of Love,Potion,Uncommon,100 gp,,"The next time you see a creature within 10 minutes after drinking this philter, you become charmed by that creature for 1 hour. If the creature is of a species and gender you are normally attracted to, you regard it as your true love while you are charmed. This potion's rose-hued, effervescent liquid contains one easy-to-miss bubble shaped like a heart.",Traveler,
Potion of Fire Breath,Potion,Uncommon,150 gp,,"After drinking this potion, you can use a bonus action to exhale fire at a target within 30 feet of you. The target must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 4d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The effect ends after you exhale the fire three times or when 1 hour has passed. This potion's orange liquid flickers, and smoke fills the top of the container and wafts out whenever it is opened.",D20,D20
Potion of Hill Giant Strength,Potion,Uncommon,200 gp,,"When you drink this potion, your Strength score changes to 21 for 1 hour. The potion has no effect on you if your Strength is equal to or greater than that score. This potion's transparent liquid has floating in it a sliver of fingernail from a giant of the appropriate type.",Traveler,
Potion of Animal Friendship,Potion,Uncommon,250 gp,,"When you drink this potion, you can cast the animal friendship spell (save DC 13) for 1 hour at will. Agitating this muddy liquid brings little bits into view: a fish scale, a hummingbird tongue, a cat claw, or a squirrel hair.",Frozenfar,
Silvered arrowheads,Weapon (ammunition),Uncommon,100 gp,,A silvered weapon is not affected by resistances against non-magical weapons. It is however not magical by itself. It can be magical if enchanted.,Half-moon tomb in the elven tomb in Lonelywood forest.,
Eyes of minute seeing,Wondrous item,Uncommon,400 gp,,"These crystal lenses fit over the eyes. While wearing them, you can see much better than normal out to a range of 1 foot. You have advantage on Intelligence (Investigation) checks that rely on sight while searching an area or studying an object within that range.",Jeweler,
Shield +1,Shield,Uncommon,500 gp,,"While holding this shield, you have a bonus to AC determined by the shield's rarity. This bonus is in addition to the shield's normal bonus to AC.",,
Ring of Swimming,Equipment (ring),Uncommon,500 gp,,Thick silver cuff ring with a pattern of scales. You have a swimming speed of 40 feet while wearing this ring.,D20,D20
Bag of tricks,Wondrous item,Uncommon,500 gp,,"This ordinary bag, made from gray, rust, or tan cloth, appears empty. Reaching inside the bag, however, reveals the presence of a small, fuzzy object. The bag weighs 1/2 pound. You can use an action to pull the fuzzy object from the bag and throw it up to 20 feet. When the object lands, it transforms into a creature you determine by rolling a d8 and consulting the table that corresponds to the bag's color. The creature vanishes at the next dawn or when it is reduced to 0 hit points. The creature is friendly to you and your companions, and it acts on your turn. You can use a bonus action to command how the creature moves and what action it takes on its next turn, or to give it general orders, such as to attack your enemies. In the absence of such orders, the creature acts in a fashion appropriate to its nature.
Once three fuzzy objects have been pulled from the bag, the bag can't be used again until the next dawn. https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/om.php?vo=bag-of-tricks ",Given as a payment by captain Arlaggath,
Ring of Warmth,Equipment (ring),Uncommon,500 gp,Attunement,"Wooden ring with a painted carving of two artic foxes sleeping. While wearing this ring, you have resistance to cold damage. In addition, you and everything you wear and carry are unharmed by temperatures as low as -50 degrees Fahrenheit.","Neck of Marta, the girl in Termalaine's Inn",
Ring of Water Walking,Equipment (ring),Uncommon,500 gp,,"Silver cuff ring with a pattern of waves inlaid with mother-of-pearl. While wearing this ring, you can stand on and move across any liquid surface as if it were solid ground.",,
Pearl of Power,Wondrous item,Uncommon,500 gp,Attunement by a spellcaster,"While this pearl is on your person, you can use an action to speak its command word and regain one expended spell slot. If the expended slot was of 4th level or higher, the new slot is 3rd level. Once you have used the pearl, it can't be used again until the next dawn.",Jeweler,
Periapt of Health,Equipment (necklace),Uncommon,500 gp,,"Pendant made of a little pouch containing various herbs and a crystal. It smells like an apothecary's shop. You are immune to contracting any disease while you wear this pendant. If you are already infected with a disease, the effects of the disease are suppressed you while you wear the pendant.",D20,D20
Mithral Scale Mail,Armor (scale mail),Uncommon,650 gp,Medium armor proficiency,"This scale mail is surprisingly light. Like other scale mails, it gives an AC of 14 + Dex mod (max 2), although it doesn't give disadvantage on Stealth checks.",Forge,
Mithral Chain Mail,Armor (chain mail),Uncommon,750 gp,"Strength of 13, heavy armor proficiency","This chain mail is surprisingly light. Like other chain mails, it gives an AC of 16, but doesn't give disadvantage of Stealth checks.",D20,D20
Necklace of Adaptation,Equipment (necklace),Uncommon,750 gp,Attunement,"Gold collar neckpiece with two bird bones and two coral pieces dangling at the front. While wearing this necklace, you can breathe normally in any environment, and you have advantage on saving throws made against harmful gases and vapors (such as cloudkill and stinking cloud effects, inhaled poisons, and the breath weapons of some dragons).",,
Robe of Useful Items,Equipment (robe),Uncommon,600 gp,,"This robe has cloth patches of various shapes and colors covering it. While wearing the robe, you can use an action to detach one of the patches, causing it to become the object or creature it represents. Once the last patch is removed, the robe becomes an ordinary garment. Object list: https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/om.php?vo=robe-of-useful-items ",,
Boots of the Winterland,Equipment (boots),Uncommon,500 gp,Attunement,"These furred boots are snug, comfy as slippers and feel quite warm. While you wear them, you gain the following benefits: You have resistance to cold damage; You ignore difficult terrain created by ice or snow; You can tolerate temperatures as low as -50 degrees Fahrenheit without any additional protection. If you wear heavy clothes, you can tolerate temperatures as low as -100 degrees Fahrenheit.",Owned by them,
Javelin of Lightning,Weapon (ammunition),Uncommon,500 gp,,"This javelin is a magic weapon. When you hurl it and speak its command word, it transforms into a bolt of lightning, forming a line 5 feet wide that extends out from you to a target within 120 feet. Each creature in the line excluding you and the target must make a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, taking 4d6 lightning damage on a failed save, and half as much damage on a successful one. The lightning bolt turns back into a javelin when it reaches the target. Make a ranged weapon attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes damage from the javelin plus 4d6 lightning damage. The javelin's property can't be used again until the next dawn. In the meantime, the javelin can still be used as a magic weapon.",Forge,
Dreamcatcher,Wondrous item,Uncommon,500 gp,Attunement,"15 centimeter wide dreamcatcher made traditionally of a wooden frame, leather threads and decorated with bird bones and feathers. Literally catches dreams. If placed above someone while they sleep, it is possible for the sleeper to watch their dreams from the night before in the catcher. Used traditionally by druids and shaman to interpret dreams.",D20,D20
Mariner's Armor,Armor (leather),Uncommon,550 gp,,"Oddly shiny leather armor. Seems waterproof. While wearing this armor, you have a swimming speed equal to your walking speed. In addition, whenever you start your turn underwater with 0 hit points, the armor causes you to rise 60 feet toward the surface. The armor is decorated with fish and shell motifs.",Frozenfar,
Cloak of the manta ray,Equipment (cloak),Uncommon,700 gp,,"Short shoulder cloak made of a thick fabric on which water drops roll. It is dark grey on the outside and pale grey on the inside, with some golden thread designs on the edges. While wearing this cloak with its hood up, you can breathe underwater, and you have a swimming speed of 60 feet. Pulling the hood up or down requires an action.",,
Tasseled Piercers,Weapon (bo-shuriken/piercer),Uncommon,500 gp,,"Thin and deadly hair pin, with a jade pearl and a tassle dangling from it. Very fashionable. Same statistics as a dagger, but only piercing damage. You have a bonus of +1 to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. ",D20,D20
Battlecry,Weapon (iron flute),Uncommon,500 gp,,Long flute made of very sturdy metal. Ideal to alternate between playing a war anthem and participating in the melee. (This iron flute would normally cause 1d6 of bludgeonning damage and has similar properties with a quarterstaff.) You have a bonus of +1 to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. ,,
Bouncer,Weapon (brass knuckles),Uncommon,500 gp,,"Simple brassknuckles with dwarvish runes for ""strength"" and ""duty"" carved on them. (Brass knuckles normally cause 1d4 bludgeonning damage.) You have a bonus of +1 to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Can be used with barehanded techniques.",,
Bracers of Archery,Equipment (bracers),Uncommon,750 gp,Attunement,"Leather bracers reinforced with gracefully shaped silver that follows the engravings of elfic design on the leather. While wearing these bracers, you have proficiency with the longbow and shortbow, and you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls on ranged attacks made with such weapons.",,
Gauntlets of Ogre Strength,Equipment (gauntlets),Uncommon,650 gp,Attunement,Silver and brass articulate gauntlets that probably don't match with your outfit. Your Strength score is 19 while you wear these gauntlets. They have no effect on you if your Strength is 19 or higher without them.,,
Cloak of elvenkind,Equipment (cloak),Uncommon,700 gp,Attunement,"Comfortable cloak of covering design with a large hood. The fabric is flowy like water and the colour difficult to determine, as if it were reflecting the light around it. While you wear this cloak with its hood up, Wisdom (Perception) checks made to see you have disadvantage, and you have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide, as the cloak's color shifts to camouflage you. Pulling the hood up or down requires an action.",D20,
Cloak of protection,Equipment (cloak),Uncommon,800 gp,Attunement,Nice cloak of thick night blue fabric with subtle gold thread lining at the edges. You gain a +1 bonus to AC and saving throws while you wear this cloak.,,
Amulet of Proof against Detection and Location,Equipment (necklace),Uncommon,990 gp,Attunement,"While wearing this amulet, you are hidden from divination magic. You can't be targeted by such magic or perceived through magical scrying sensors.",,
Deck of Illusions,Wondrous item,Uncommon,4000 gp,,"This box contains a set of parchment cards. A full deck has 34 cards. A deck found as treasure is usually missing 1d20 - 1 cards. The magic of the deck functions only if cards are drawn at random (you can use an altered deck of playing cards to simulate the deck). You can use an action to draw a card at random from the deck and throw it to the ground at a point within 30 feet of you. An illusion of one or more creatures forms over the thrown card and remains until dispelled. An illusory creature appears real, of the appropriate size, and behaves as if it were a real creature except that it can do no harm. While you are within 120 feet of the illusory creature and can see it, you can use an action to move it magically anywhere within 30 feet of its card. Any physical interaction with the illusory creature reveals it to be an illusion, because objects pass through it. Someone who uses an action to visually inspect the creature identifies it as illusory with a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) check. The creature then appears translucent. The illusion lasts until its card is moved or the illusion is dispelled. When the illusion ends, the image on its card disappears, and that card can't be used again. https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/om.php?vo=deck-of-illusions ",Traveler,
Gloves of Missile Snaring,Equipment (gloves),Uncommon,500 gp,Attunement,"Fine black leather gloves addorned with arrow-shaped silver threads. These gloves seem to almost meld into your hands when you don them. When a ranged weapon attack hits you while you're wearing them, you can use your reaction to reduce the damage by 1d10 + your Dexterity modifier, provided that you have a free hand. If you reduce the damage to 0, you can catch the missile if it is small enough for you to hold in that hand.",,
Gloves of Swimming and Climbing,Equipment (gloves),Uncommon,500 gp,Attunement,"Brown leather gloves protecting the fingers and the palms. While wearing these gloves, climbing and swimming don't cost you extra movement, and you gain a +5 bonus to Strength (Athletics) checks made to climb or swim.",,
Quiver of Ehlonna,Wondrous item,Uncommon,800 gp,,"Thin and elegant quiver of leather reinforced with silver carved with leaves patterns. Each of the quiver's three compartments connects to an extradimensional space that allows the quiver to hold numerous items while never weighing more than 2 pounds. The shortest compartment can hold up to sixty arrows, bolts, or similar objects. The midsize compartment holds up to eighteen javelins or similar objects. The longest compartment holds up to six long objects, such as bows, quarterstaffs, or spears. ou can draw any item the quiver contains as if doing so from a regular quiver or scabbard.",,
Hat of Disguise,Equipment (hat),Uncommon,500 gp,Attunement,"Green top hat with feasant feathers. While wearing this hat, you can use an action to cast the disguise self spell from it at will. The spell ends if the hat is removed.",,
Keoghtom's Ointment,Potion,Uncommon,700 gp,,"This glass jar, 3 inches in diameter, contains 1d4 + 1 doses of a thick mixture that smells faintly of aloe. The jar and its contents weigh 1/2 pound. As an action, one dose of the ointment can be swallowed or applied to the skin. The creature that receives it regains 2d8 + 2 hit points, ceases to be poisoned, and is cured of any disease.",Traveler,
Immovable Rod,Wondrous item,Uncommon,500 gp,,"This flat iron rod has a button on one end. You can use an action to press the button, which causes the rod to become magically fixed in place. Until you or another creature uses an action to push the button again, the rod doesn't move, even if it is defying gravity. The rod can hold up to 8,000 pounds of weight. More weight causes the rod to deactivate and fall. A creature can use an action to make a DC 30 Strength check, moving the fixed rod up to 10 feet on a success.",D20,D20
Trident of Fish Command,Weapon (trident),Uncommon,500 gp,Attunement,"This trident is a magic weapon. It has 3 charges. While you carry it, you can use an action and expend 1 charge to cast dominate beast (save DC 15) from it on a beast that has an innate swimming speed. The trident regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn.",,
Adamantine Eridani,Armor (studded leather),Uncommon,500 gp,,"12 + Dex modifier. This suit of armor is reinforced with adamantine, one of the hardest substances in existence. The adamantine studs are placed somewhat randomly, but shine like so many little stars in the sun. While you're wearing it, any critical hit against you becomes a normal hit.",,
Alchemy Jug,Wondrous Item,Uncommon,500 gp,,"This ceramic jug appears to be able to hold a gallon of liquid and weighs 12 pounds whether full or empty. Sloshing sounds can be heard from within the jug when it is shaken, even if the jug is empty. You can use an action and name one liquid from the table below to cause the jug to produce the chosen liquid. Afterward, you can uncork the jug as an action and pour that liquid out, up to 2 gallons per minute. The maximum amount of liquid the jug can produce depends on the liquid you named. Once the jug starts producing a liquid, it can't produce a different one, or more of one that has reached its maximum, until the next dawn. https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/om.php?vo=alchemy-jug ",,
Pipes of Haunting,Wondrous item,Uncommon,500 gp,,"You must be proficient with wind instruments to use these pipes. They have 3 charges. You can use an action to play them and expend 1 charge to create an eerie, spellbinding tune. Each creature within 30 feet of you that hears you play must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of you for 1 minute. If you wish, all creatures in the area that aren't hostile toward you automatically succeed on the saving throw. A creature that fails the saving throw can repeat it at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. A creature that succeeds on its saving throw is immune to the effect of these pipes for 24 hours. The pipes regain 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn.",D20,D20
Tasha's,Wondrous item,Uncommon,500 gp,,"This bag has an interior space considerably larger than its outside dimensions, roughly 2 feet in diameter at the mouth and 4 feet deep. The bag can hold up to 500 pounds, not exceeding a volume of 64 cubic feet. The bag weighs 15 pounds, regardless of its contents. Retrieving an item from the bag requires an action. If the bag is overloaded, pierced, or torn, it ruptures and is destroyed, and its contents are scattered in the Astral Plane. If the bag is turned inside out, its contents spill forth, unharmed, but the bag must be put right before it can be used again. Breathing creatures inside the bag can survive up to a number of minutes equal to 10 divided by the number of creatures (minimum 1 minute), after which time they begin to suffocate. Placing a bag of holding inside an extradimensional space created by a Heward's handy haversack, portable hole, or similar item instantly destroys both items and opens a gate to the Astral Plane. The gate originates where the one item was placed inside the other. Any creature within 10 feet of the gate is sucked through it to a random location on the Astral Plane. The gate then closes. The gate is one-way only and can't be reopened.",Placed,
Periapt of Wound Closure,Equipment (necklace),Uncommon,500 gp,Attunement,"Golden chain with a rheart-shaped ruby pendant. While you wear this pendant, you stabilize whenever you are dying at the start of your turn. In addition, whenever you roll a Hit Die to regain hit points, double the number of hit points it restores.",,
Scrimshaw owl,Wondrous item,Uncommon,500 gp,,"This white statuette of an owl can become a snow owl for up to 12 hours. Once it has been used, it can't be used again until 2 days have passed. While in owl form, the figurine allows you to cast the animal messenger spell on it at will.",Fyodor,D20
,Drug (powder),Uncommon,500 gp / 100 g,,"A powdered form of Tasha's Hideous Laughter, looks like a great time, but really isn't. Save DC 17.",Torg,D20
Stone of Good Luck,Wondrous item,Uncommon,500 gp,Attunement,"While this polished agate is on your person, you gain a +1 bonus to ability checks and saving throws.",Ic,Ic
Broom of Flying,Wondrous item,Uncommon,900 gp,Attunement,"This wooden broom, which weighs 3 pounds, looks and functions like a mundane broom, although it is definitely not the best sweeping experience you have had. That is, until you stand astride it and speak its command word. It then hovers beneath you and can be ridden in the air. It has a flying speed of 50 feet. It can carry up to 400 pounds, but its flying speed becomes 30 feet while carrying over 200 pounds. The broom stops hovering when you land. You can send the broom to travel alone to a destination within 1 mile of you if you speak the command word, name the location, and are familiar with that place. The broom comes back to you when you speak another command word, provided that the broom is still within 1 mile of you.",,
Sphere of Truth,Wondrous item,Uncommon,900 gp,Attunement,"Glass ball the size of a fist with a silvery mist swirling in it. Once a day, when touched by a creature attuned to it, the sphere produces a 20-foot radius zone of truth (save DC 17) that lasts one hour.",Embedded in the center of the round table in the trial room of the Ten-Town council hall. (2nd floor),
Googles of Night,Equipment (glasses),Uncommon,600 gp,,"Brass and leather googles with green lenses. While wearing these dark lenses, you have darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. If you already have darkvision, wearing the goggles increases its range by 60 feet.",Owned by Fyodor Dignedor,D20
Eyes of charming,Wondrous item,Uncommon,600 gp,Attunement,"These crystal lenses fit over the eyes. For some reason, those are mounted on scrimshaw snow blindness googles. They have 3 charges. While wearing them, you can expend 1 charge as an action to cast the charm person spell (save DC 13) on a humanoid within 30 feet of you, provided that you and the target can see each other. The lenses regain all expended charges daily at dawn.",,
Ring of Jumping,Equipment (ring),Uncommon,400 gp,Attunement,"While wearing this ring, you can cast the jump spell from it as a bonus action at will, but can target only yourself when you do so.",,
Bracer of blasting,Equipment (bracer),Uncommon,600 gp,,"Wide leather bracer ornate with a gold sun. The center of the sun is a topaz. While wearing this bracer, you can use an action to cast the scorching ray spell with it. When you make the spell's attacks, you do so with an attack bonus of +5. The bracer can't be used this way again until the next dawn.",,
Eversmoking Bottle,Wondrous item,Uncommon,600 gp,,"Smoke leaks from the lead-stoppered mouth of this brass bottle, which weighs 1 pound. When you use an action to remove the stopper, a cloud of thick smoke pours out in a 60-foot radius from the bottle. The cloud's area is heavily obscured. Each minute the bottle remains open and within the cloud, the radius increases by 10 feet until it reaches its maximum radius of 120 feet. The cloud persists as long as the bottle is open. Closing the bottle requires you to speak its command word as an action. Once the bottle is closed, the cloud disperses after 10 minutes. A moderate wind (11 to 20 miles per hour) can also disperse the smoke after 1 minute, and a strong wind (21 or more miles per hour can do so after 1 round.",,
Pipes of the Sewers,Wondrous item,Uncommon,400 gp,Attunement,"Pan flute with little dancings rats painted on each of the pipes. You must be proficient with wind instruments to use these pipes. While you are attuned to the pipes, ordinary rats and giant rats are indifferent toward you and will not attack you unless you threaten or harm them. The pipes have 3 charges. If you play the pipes as an action, you can use a bonus action to expend 1 to 3 charges, calling forth one swarm of rats with each expended charge, provided that enough rats are within half a mile of you to be called in this fashion (as determined by the DM). If there aren't enough rats to form a swarm, the charge is wasted. Called swarms move toward the music by the shortest available route but aren't under your control otherwise. The pipes regain 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. Whenever a swarm of rats that isn't under another creature's control comes within 30 feet of you while you are playing the pipes, you can make a Charisma check contested by the swarm's Wisdom check. If you lose the contest, the swarm behaves as it normally would and can't be swayed by the pipes' music for the next 24 hours. If you win the contest, the swarm is swayed by the pipes' music and becomes friendly to you and your companions for as long as you continue to play the pipes each round as an action. A friendly swarm obeys your commands. If you issue no commands to a friendly swarm, it defends itself but otherwise takes no actions. If a friendly swarm starts its turn and can't hear the pipes' music, your control over that swarm ends, and the swarm behaves as it normally would and can't be swayed by the pipes' music for the next 24 hours.",,
Headband of Intellect,Equipment (headband),Uncommon,600 gp,Attunement,Golden chains intertwined around your head to hold an amethyst in the center of your forehead. Your Intelligence score is 19 while you wear this headband. It has no effect on you if your Intelligence is 19 or higher without it.,,
Decanter of Endless Water,Wondrous item,Uncommon,600 gp,,"Flask made of a blue coloured horn and reinforced with brass at the tip and the base, where the opening is. The horn and the brass are both carved with patterns ressembling waves. This stoppered flask sloshes when shaken, as if it contains water. The decanter weighs 2 pounds. You can use an action to remove the stopper and speak one of three command words, whereupon an amount of fresh water or salt water (your choice pours out of the flask. The water stops pouring out at the start of your next turn. Choose from the following options: ""Stream"" produces 1 gallon of water; ""Fountain"" produces 5 gallons of water; ""Geyser"" produces 30 gallons of water that gushes forth in a geyser 30 feet long and 1 foot wide. As a bonus action while holding the decanter, you can aim the geyser at a creature you can see within 30 feet of you. The target must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or take 1d4 bludgeoning damage and fall prone. Instead of a creature, you can target an object that isn't being worn or carried and that weighs no more than 200 pounds. The object is either knocked over or pushed up to 15 feet away from you.",,
Brooch of shielding,Equipment (brooch),Uncommon,700 gp,Attunement,"Fancy assymetrical gold brooch that looks probably too expensive for your outfit. The magic rune for ""shield"" is carved on it in a stylised way. While wearing this brooch, you have resistance to force damage, and you have immunity to damage from the magic missile spell.",D20,D20
Boots of Elvenkind,Equipment (boots),Uncommon,700 gp,,"Fashionable and incredibly soft leather boots of elven design. The leather patterns create a texture resembling leaves. While you wear these boots, your steps make no sound, regardless of the surface you are moving across. You also have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks that rely on moving silently.",,
Light shard,Wondrous item,Uncommon,700 gp,,"This shard of selenite weighs 1 pound. If you are within 60 feet of it, you can speak its command word and cause it to emanate the light or daylight spell. Once used, the daylight effect can't be used again until the next dawn. You can speak another command word as an action to make the illuminated globe rise into the air and float no more than 5 feet off the ground. The shard hovers in this way until you or another creature grasps it. If you move more than 60 feet from the hovering globe, it follows you until it is within 60 feet of you. It takes the shortest route to do so. If prevented from moving, the globe sinks gently to the ground and becomes inactive, and its light winks out.",D20,D20
Rope of Climbing,Wondrous item,Uncommon,400 gp,,"This 60-foot length of silk rope weighs 3 pounds and can hold up to 3,000 pounds. If you hold one end of the rope and use an action to speak the command word, the rope animates. As a bonus action, you can command the other end to move toward a destination you choose. That end moves 10 feet on your turn when you first command it and 10 feet on each of your turns until reaching its destination, up to its maximum length away, or until you tell it to stop. You can also tell the rope to fasten itself securely to an object or to unfasten itself, to knot or unknot itself, or to coil itself for carrying. If you tell the rope to knot, large knots appear at 1-foot intervals along the rope. While knotted, the rope shortens to a 50-foot length and grants advantage on checks made to climb it. The rope has AC 20 and 20 hit points. It regains 1 hit point every 5 minutes as long as it has at least 1 hit point. If the rope drops to 0 hit points, it is destroyed.",Frozenfar,
Lantern of Revealing,Wondrous item,Uncommon,400 gp,,"While lit, this hooded lantern burns for 6 hours on 1 pint of oil, shedding bright light in a 30-foot radius and dim light for an additional 30 feet. Invisible creatures and objects are visible as long as they are in the lantern's bright light. You can use an action to lower the hood, reducing the light to dim light in a 5-foot radius.",D20,D20
Staff of the Python,Weapon (staff),Uncommon,500 gp,"Attunement by a cleric, druid or warlock","Wooden staff with the head carved as the head of a snake. You can use an action to speak this staff's command word and throw the staff on the ground within 10 feet of you. The staff becomes a giant constrictor snake (see the Monster Manual for statistics) under your control and acts on its own initiative count. By using a bonus action to speak the command word again, you return the staff to its normal form in a space formerly occupied by the snake. On your turn, you can mentally command the snake if it is within 60 feet of you and you aren't incapacitated. You decide what action the snake takes and where it moves during its next turn, or you can issue it a general command, such as to attack your enemies or guard a location. If the snake is reduced to 0 hit points, it dies and reverts to its staff form. The staff then shatters and is destroyed. If the snake reverts to staff form before losing all its hit points, it regains all of them.",,
Slippers of Spider Climbing,Equipment (shoes),Uncommon,600 gp,Attunement,"While you wear these light shoes, you can move up, down, and across vertical surfaces and upside down along ceilings, while leaving your hands free. You have a climbing speed equal to your walking speed. However, the slippers don't allow you to move this way on a slippery surface, such as one covered by ice or oil.",,
Medallion of Thoughts,Equipment (necklace),Uncommon,800 gp,Attunement,"Medallion engraved with a network of crossed lines like a dream-catcher and arcane glyphs. The medallion has 3 charges. While wearing it, you can use an action and expend 1 charge to cast the detect thoughts spell (save DC 13) from it. The medallion regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn.",D20,D20
Ring of Mind Shielding,Equipment (ring),Uncommon,800 gp,Attunement,"Wooden ring encasing a large prism made of a blue gem. While wearing this ring, you are immune to magic that allows other creatures to read your thoughts, determine whether you are lying, know your alignment, or know your creature type. Creatures can telepathically communicate with you only if you allow it. You can use an action to cause the ring to become invisible until you use another action to make it visible, until you remove the ring, or until you die. If you die while wearing the ring, your soul enters it, unless it already houses a soul. You can remain in the ring or depart for the afterlife. As long as your soul is in the ring, you can telepathically communicate with any creature wearing it. A wearer can't prevent this telepathic communication.",,
Elven Pipeweed,Drug (pipeweed),Rare,2000 gp / 100 g,,"A rare lichen which grows on the trees in northern forests, dried and smoked in a pipe. Produces a numbing as well as minor hallucinogenic effect, usually illegal. Effects – resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, force, and thunder damage, -2 initiative, weakness to psychic damage; lasts 2 hours. Addiction – upon each dose roll for an addiction saving throw, Wisdom vs DC8+number of doses previously not resisted (max 10) to resist. Upon each long rest, roll for an addiction saving throw, identical to above; success removes 1 DC from the next addiction save, failure results in -2 initiative for day. DC 8-10 – works as expected. -2 to initiative persists 2 more hours beyond end of effects. DC 11-15 – works as expected, but -4 initiative and disadvantage on reflex saves which both last 2 more hours beyond end of effects. DC 16-18 - works as expected, but -6 initiative, disadvantage on reflex saves, and slowed, all three of which both last 2 more hours beyond end of effects.",Found on a frost druid cadaver,
Shield of Missie Protection,Shield,Rare,4400 gp,Attunement,"While holding this shield, you have resistance to damage from ranged weapon attacks. Curse. This shield is cursed. Attuning to it curses you until you are targeted by the remove curse spell or similar magic. Removing the shield fails to end the curse on you. Whenever a ranged weapon attack is made against a target within 10 feet of you, the curse causes you to become the target instead.",,
Ring of Spell Storing,Equipment (ring),Rare,5500 gp,Attunement,"Two-finger ring made of gold bands covered in tiny arcane engravings. This ring stores spells cast into it, holding them until the attuned wearer uses them. Any creature can cast a spell of 1st through 5th level into the ring by touching the ring as the spell is cast. The spell has no effect, other than to be stored in the ring. If the ring can't hold the spell, the spell is expended without effect. The level of the slot used to cast the spell determines how much space it uses. The ring can store up to 5 levels worth of spells at a time. While wearing this ring, you can cast any spell stored in it. The spell uses the slot level, spell save DC, spell attack bonus, and spellcasting ability of the original caster, but is otherwise treated as if you cast the spell. The spell cast from the ring is no longer stored in it, freeing up space.When found, it contains 1d6 - 1 levels of stored spells chosen by the DM.",Jeweler Easthaven,
Potion of Diminution,Potion,Rare,2000 gp,,"When you drink this potion, you gain the ""reduce"" effect of the enlarge/reduce spell for 1d4 hours (no concentration required). The red in the potion's liquid continuously contracts to a tiny bead and then expands to color the clear liquid around it. Shaking the bottle fails to interrupt this process.",,
Potion of Heroism,Potion,Rare,2750 gp,,"For 1 hour after drinking it, you gain 10 temporary hit points that last for 1 hour. For the same duration, you are under the effect of the bless spell (no concentration required). This blue potion bubbles and steams as if boiling.",,
Potion of Gaseous Form,Potion,Rare,2700 gp,,"When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of the gaseous form spell for 1 hour (no concentration required) or until you end the effect as a bonus action. This potion's container seems to hold fog that moves and pours like water.",D20,D20
Potion of Invisibility,Potion,Rare,2750 gp,,"This potion's container looks empty but feels as though it holds liquid. When you drink it, you become invisible for 1 hour. Anything you wear or carry is invisible with you. The effect ends early if you attack or cast a spell.",D20,D20
Oil of Etherealness,Potion,Rare,2700 gp,,"Beads of this cloudy gray oil form on the outside of its container and quickly evaporate. The oil can cover a Medium or smaller creature, along with the equipment it's wearing and carrying (one additional vial is required for each size category above Medium). Applying the oil takes 10 minutes. The affected creature then gains the effect of the etherealness spell for 1 hour.",,
Scroll of Protection against Undead,Scroll,rare,3000 gp,,"Using an action to read the scroll encloses you in a invisible barrier that extends from you to form a 5-foot-radius, 10-foot-high cylinder. For 5 minutes, this barrier prevents undead creatures from entering or affecting anything within the cylinder. The cylinder moves with you and remains centered on you. However, if you move in such a way that an undead creature would be inside the cylinder, the effect ends. A creature can attempt to overcome the barrier by using an action to make a DC 15 Charisma check. On a success, the creature ceases to be affected by the barrier.",,D20
Scroll of Protection against Constructs,Scroll,Rare,3000 gp,,"Using an action to read the scroll encloses you in a invisible barrier that extends from you to form a 5-foot-radius, 10-foot-high cylinder. For 5 minutes, this barrier prevents constructs from entering or affecting anything within the cylinder. The cylinder moves with you and remains centered on you. However, if you move in such a way that a construct would be inside the cylinder, the effect ends. A creature can attempt to overcome the barrier by using an action to make a DC 15 Charisma check. On a success, the creature ceases to be affected by the barrier.",D20,D20
Scroll of Protection,Scroll,Rare,3000 gp,,"Each scroll of protection works against a specific type of creature. Using an action to read the scroll encloses you in a invisible barrier that extends from you to form a 5-foot-radius, 10-foot-high cylinder. For 5 minutes, this barrier prevents creatures of the specified type from entering or affecting anything within the cylinder. The cylinder moves with you and remains centered on you. However, if you move in such a way that a creature of the specified type would be inside the cylinder, the effect ends. A creature can attempt to overcome the barrier by using an action to make a DC 15 Charisma check. On a success, the creature ceases to be affected by the barrier.",,
Shield +2,Shield,Rare,5000 gp,,"While holding this shield, you have a bonus to AC determined by the shield's rarity. This bonus is in addition to the shield's normal bonus to AC.",,
Rope of Entanglement,Wondrous item,Rare,4000 gp,,"This rope is 30 feet long and weighs 3 pounds. If you hold one end of the rope and use an action to speak its command word, the other end darts forward to entangle a creature you can see within 20 feet of you, The target must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or become restrained. You can release the creature by using a bonus action to speak a second command word. A target restrained by the rope can use an action to make a DC 15 Strength or Dexterity check (target's choice). On a success, the creature is no longer restrained by the rope. The rope has AC 20 and 20 hit points. It regains 1 hit point every 5 minutes as long as it has at least 1 hit point. If the rope drops to 0 hit points, it is destroyed.",D20,D20
Ring of X-Ray Vision,Equipment (ring),Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"Gold ring engraved with a single thick circle in which is inlaid some lapis lazuli. While wearing this ring, you can use an action to speak its command word. When you do so, you can see into and through solid matter for 1 minute. This vision has a radius of 30 feet. To you, solid objects within that radius appear transparent and don't prevent light from passing through them. The vision can penetrate 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, or up to 3 feet of wood or dirt. Thicker substances block the vision, as does a thin sheet of lead.",,
Potion of Stone Giant Strength,Potion,Rare,2500 gp,,"When you drink this potion, your Strength score changes to 23 for 1 hour. The potion has no effect on you if your Strength is equal to or greater than that score. This potion's transparent liquid has floating in it a sliver of fingernail from a giant of the appropriate type. ",,
Potion of Invulnerability,Potion,Rare,2750 gp,,"For 1 minute after you drink this potion, you have resistance to all damage. The potion's syrupy liquid looks like liquified iron.",,
Potion of Clairevoyance,Potion,Rare,2900 gp,,"When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of the clairvoyance spell. An eyeball bobs in this yellowish liquid but vanishes when the potion is opened.",,
Potion of Frost Giant Strength,Potion,Rare,2900 gp,,"When you drink this potion, your Strength score changes to 23 for 1 hour. The potion has no effect on you if your Strength is equal to or greater than that score. You also gain resistance to cold damage while the potion is in effect. This potion's transparent liquid has floating in it a sliver of fingernail from a giant of the appropriate type.",Torg,Torg
Potion of Fire Giant Strength,Potion,Rare,2900 gp,,"When you drink this potion, your Strength score changes to 25 for 1 hour. The potion has no effect on you if your Strength is equal to or greater than that score. You also gain resistance to fire damage while the potion is in effect. This potion's transparent liquid has floating in it a sliver of fingernail from a giant of the appropriate type.",,
Bow of the Stormkeeper,Weapon (long bow),Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"Long bow made of an unknown silver-coloured metal adorned with arcane carvings. You have a bonus of +1 to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. On hit, this bow causes +2d6 of thunder damage to the target.",,
Demon's Wakizashi,Weapon (shortsword),Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"The blade of folded steel was finely smithed. The handle of the hilt shows haunting grimacing oni figures between the fabric bands covering it. You have a bonus of +1 to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. On hit, this weapon causes +2d6 necrotic damage to the target.",,
Mace of Solace,Weapon (mace),Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"Mace with a head shaped like a sun. You have a bonus of +1 to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. On hit, it deals +2d6 radiant damage to the target.",,
Bracers of Giant Strength,Equipment (arm piece),Rare,6000 gp,Attunement,"Brass bracers with intricate dwarvish runes carved on them. It reads on each ""strength to build a forteress and destroy a legion"". You get +2 to your strength score, to a maximum of 20 while you were these bracers. ",,
Collar of Bodily Integrity,Equipment (necklace),Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"Golden collar open at the front and kept secure by a thin golden chain. While wearing this collar, you get +2 to your constitution scoar, to a maximum of 20. ",,
Sash of Agility,Equipment (belt),Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"Intricate sash of dark brown leather and forest green linen. You get a +2 to your dexterity score, to a maximum of 20 while wearing this sash. ",,
Ring of Insight,Equipment (ring),Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"Silver ring mounted with a beautiful amethyst. You get a +2 to you Wisdom score, to a maximum of 20, while wearing it.",,
Amulet of Health,Necklace,Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,Your Constitution score is 19 while you wear this amulet. It has no effect on you if your Constitution is 19 or higher without it.,Given by Copper,
Periapt of Proof against Poison,Necklace,Rare,5000 gp,,"This delicate silver chain has a brilliant-cut green gem pendant. While you wear it, poisons have no effect on you. You are immune to the poisoned condition and have immunity to poison damage. The gem becomes black for the rest of the day when you have been in contact with poison.",,
Necklace of Fireballs,Equipment (necklace),Rare,3500 gp,,"Necklace of leather treads to which are affixed red-orange round beads. This necklace has 1d6 + 3 beads hanging from it. You can use an action to detach a bead and throw it up to 60 feet away. When it reaches the end of its trajectory, the bead detonates as a 3rd-level fireball spell (save DC 15). You can hurl multiple beads, or even the whole necklace, as one action. When you do so, increase the level of the fireball by 1 for each bead beyond the first.",D20,
Boots of Levitation,Equipment (boots),Rare,9000 gp,Attunement,"Rather plain-looking boots. The sole appears new, compared to the darkened colour of the worn leather. While you wear these boots, you can use an action to cast the levitate spell on yourself at will.",,
Necklace of Prayer Beads,Equipment (necklace),Rare,4000 gp,"Attunement by a cleric, druid or paladin","This necklace has 108 beads, not including the biggest one, a jade with the potential to cast Plannar ally. 1d4 + 2 magic beads made from aquamarine, black pearl, or topaz. It also has many nonmagical beads made from stones such as amber, bloodstone, citrine, coral, jade, pearl, or quartz. If a magic bead is removed from the necklace, that bead loses its magic. Six types of magic beads exist. The DM decides the type of each bead on the necklace or determines it randomly. https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/om.php?vo=necklace-of-prayer-beads ",,
Breastplate of the tavern brawler,Armor (breastplate),Rare,1000 gp,Attunement,"Fashionably carved breastplate. Always subtly smells like the bottom of a beer barrel. AC 14 + Dex modifier (max 2). While wearing this armor, you have resistance to bludgeoning damage. Curse. This armor is cursed, a fact that is revealed only when an identify spell is cast on the armor or you attune to it. Attuning to the armor curses you until you are targeted by the remove curse spell or similar magic; removing the armor fails to end the curse. While cursed, you have vulnerability to piercing and slashing damage.",,
Leather of the bear wrestler,Armor (leather),Rare,2000 gp,Attunement,"Leather armor ornate with bear claws on the front of the shoulders and the top of the wrists. Badass. AC 11 + Dex modifier. While wearing this armor, you have resistance to slashing damage. Curse. This armor is cursed, a fact that is revealed only when an identify spell is cast on the armor or you attune to it. Attuning to the armor curses you until you are targeted by the remove curse spell or similar magic; removing the armor fails to end the curse. While cursed, you have vulnerability to piercing and bludgeoning damage.",,
Marble Malamute,Wondrous item,Rare,4000 gp,,"This marble statuette of a dog can become a malamute for up to 6 hours. The mastiff has an Intelligence of 8 and can speak Common. It also has darkvision out to a range of 60 feet and can see invisible creatures and objects within that range. Once it has been used, it can't be used again until 7 days have passed.",D20,
Clay Mammoth,Wondrous item,Rare,4000 gp,,"This clay statuette is about 4 inches high and long. It can become a mammoth for up to 24 hours. Once it has been used, it can't be used again until 7 days have passed.",,
Chime of opening,Wondrous item,Rare,3000 gp,,"This thin hollow metal tube measures about 1 foot long and weighs 1 pound. You can strike it as an action, pointing it at an object within 120 feet of you that can be opened, such as a door, lid, or lock. The chime issues a clear tone, and one lock or latch on the object opens unless the sound can't reach the object. If no locks or latches remain, the object itself opens. The chime can be used ten times. After the tenth time, it cracks and becomes useless.",,
Horn of Blasting,Wondrous item,Rare,5000 gp,,"War horn carved out of an actual slightly curved horn, likely coming from some sort of a massive bovine creature, strapped with leather and decorated of carvings of thundra animals. The dwarvish/giant rne for 'blast' is carved inside the bell. You can use an action to speak the horn's command word and then blow the horn, which emits a thunderous blast in a 30-foot cone that is audible 600 feet away. Each creature in the cone must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 5d6 thunder damage and is deafened for 1 minute. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage and isn't deafened. Creatures and objects made of glass or crystal have disadvantage on the saving throw and take 10d6 thunder damage instead of 5d6. Each use of the horn's magic has a 20 percent chance of causing the horn to explode. The explosion deals 10d6 fire damage to the blower and destroys the horn.",Found by Mhurren in Jarlmoot,
Tent of War,Wondrous Item,Rare,5000 gp,,"Over the course of 10 minutes, during which the fabric, supports, ropes, and spikes are assembled, a single exterior tent is pitched. From the outside, the tent appears as a banal small tent of old white fabric in the shape of a 5 ft wide pyramide. Any living humanoid who enters the tent enters a demiplane of space unique to them roughly 10 feet wide, 10 feet deep, and 5 feet high with a small cot, lamp, and desk with a drawer for personal amenities. The space of this demiplane adjusts relative to the size of its inhabitant slightly to be sure they can rest comfortably. Any living creature in a demiplane connected to the tent is ejected when it is disassembled or damaged. Any items inside connected demiplanes remain, but cannot be retrieved until the tent is re-assembled.",Carried by Ic. Belonged to Gnarb Knok,
Cape of the Mountebank,Equipment (cloak),Rare,5000 gp,,"This cape is obviously made more for flair than utility: it is a bit short to cover you against the elements and the purple fabric is light and shiny, embroided with golden thread. It smells faintly of brimstone. While wearing it, you can use it to cast the dimension door spell as an action. This property of the cape can't be used again until the next dawn. When you disappear, you leave behind a cloud of smoke, and you appear in a similar cloud of smoke at your destination. The smoke lightly obscures the space you left and the space you appear in, and it dissipates at the end of your next turn. A light or stronger wind disperses the smoke.",,
Ring of Poison resistance,Equipment (ring),Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"You have resistance to poison damage while wearing this ring, which is set with an amethyst.",D20,
Iron Bands of Bilarro,Wondrous item,Rare,5000 gp,,"This rusty iron sphere measures 3 inches in diameter and weighs 1 pound. You can use an action to speak the command word and throw the sphere at a Huge or smaller creature you can see within 60 feet of you. As the sphere moves through the air, it opens into a tangle of metal bands. Make a ranged attack roll with an attack bonus equal to your Dexterity modifier plus your proficiency bonus. On a hit, the target is restrained until you take a bonus action to speak the command word again to release it. Doing so, or missing with the attack, causes the bands to contract and become a sphere once more. A creature, including the one restrained, can use an action to make a DC 20 Strength check to break the iron bands. On a success, the item is destroyed, and the restrained creature is freed. If the check fails, any further attempts made by that creature automatically fail until 24 hours have elapsed.
Once the bands are used, they can't be used again until the next dawn.",,
Convenient Haversack,Wondrous item,Rare,1500 gp,,"Brown leather backpack closed with a thread and hanging too low on your back to be practical on a treck - but, hey, it's fashionable! This backpack can hold up to 8 cubic feet or 80 pounds of material. The backpack always weighs 5 pounds, regardless of its contents. Placing an object in the haversack follows the normal rules for interacting with objects. Retrieving an item from the haversack requires you to use an action. When you reach into the haversack for a specific item, the item is always magically on top. The haversack has a few limitations. If it is overloaded, or if a sharp object pierces it or tears it, the haversack ruptures and is destroyed. If the haversack is destroyed, its contents are lost forever, although an artifact always turns up again somewhere. If the haversack is turned inside out, its contents spill forth, unharmed, and the haversack must be put right before it can be used again. If a breathing creature is placed within the haversack, the creature can survive for up to 10 minutes, after which time it begins to suffocate. Placing the haversack inside an extradimensional space created by a bag of holding, portable hole, or similar item instantly destroys both items and opens a gate to the Astral Plane. The gate originates where the one item was placed inside the other. Any creature within 10 feet of the gate is sucked through it and deposited in a random location on the Astral Plane. The gate then closes. The gate is one-way only and can't be reopened.",D20,
Glamoured Studded Leather,Armor (studded leather),Rare,1000 gp,,"While wearing this armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC (AC = 13 + Dex bonus). You can also use a bonus action to speak the armor's command word and cause the armor to assume the appearance of a normal set of clothing or some other kind of armor. You decide what it looks like, including color, style, and accessories, but the armor retains its normal bulk and weight. The illusory appearance lasts until you use this property again or remove the armor.",,
Mind Flayer,Drug (injection),Rare,20 gp / dose,,"A small syringe of viscous purple liquid glints on the table, the light occasionally catching small particles of crystal shards. Favored by wizards and other madly dedicated scholars, the specifics of this drug's composure are a mystery, with rumors of dragon's blood, illithid remains, and puréed oozes not being entirely out of the question. Each syringe contains 1 dose. Taking a dose of Mind Flayer takes a bonus action. When you do so, your Intelligence score increases to 24 if its not already higher, and you have advantage on all Intelligence saving throws for 8 hours. Consuming a dose of Mind Flayer within 24 hours of the end of the original dose forces the creature to make a DC 16 Intelligence saving throw. On a failure, astral projection is cast on them and they can not end it voluntarily. The save DC for Mind Flayer is 18. Mind Flayer addicts are easily recognizable by their violent mood swings from near-catatonic to hyper-active as their weakened brain tries to make sense of the greater knowledge their drugged state granted them. Every hour, you must roll 1d20. On a 1-7, you must succeed a DC 16 Intelligence saving throw at the beginning of each of your turns or fall unconscious until the beginning of your next turn. On an 8-14, you cannot talk coherently and behave as if under the effects of the confusion spell during initiative. On a 15-20, nothing happens. Mind Flayer only lasts for 1 hour, and removed the effects of addiction.",,
Gem of Seeing,Wondrous item,Rare,1500 gp,Attunement,"Gem carved as a lense and mounted as a monocle. This gem has 3 charges. As an action, you can speak the gem's command word and expend 1 charge. For the next 10 minutes, you have truesight out to 120 feet when you peer through the gem. The gem regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn.",,
Cloak of the bat,Equipment (cloak),Rare,12000 gp,Attunement,"Long cloak of thick black fabric that seems to absorb light. Its edges seem almost hardened and sharp. While wearing this cloak, you have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks. In an area of dim light or darkness, you can grip the edges of the cloak with both hands and use it to fly at a speed of 40 feet. If you ever fail to grip the cloak's edges while flying in this way, or if you are no longer in dim light or darkness, you lose this flying speed. While wearing the cloak in an area of dim light or darkness, you can use your action to cast polymorph on yourself, transforming into a bat. While you are in the form of the bat, you retain your Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores. The cloak can't be used this way again until the next dawn.",,
Potion of superior healing,Potion,Rare,2000 gp,,8d4 + 8 Healing,,
Sunblade,Weapon (dagger),Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"This item appears to be a dagger or knife hilt. While grasping the hilt, you can use a bonus action to cause a blade of pure radiance to spring into existence, or make the blade disappear. While the blade exists, this magic blade has the finesse property. You gain a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this weapon, which deals radiant damage instead of slashing or piecing damage. When you hit an undead with it, that target takes an extra 1d8 radiant damage. The sword's luminous blade emits bright light in a 15-foot radius and dim light for an additional 15 feet. The light is sunlight. While the blade persists, you can use an action to expand or reduce its radius of bright and dim light by 5 feet each, to a maximum of 30 feet each or a minimum of 10 feet each.",D20,D20
Berserker Axe,Weapon (axe),Rare,2000 gp,Attunement,"You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. In addition, while you are attuned to this weapon, your hit point maximum increases by 1 for each level you have attained. Curse. This axe is cursed, and becoming attuned to it extends the curse to you. As long as you remain cursed, you are unwilling to part with the axe, keeping it within reach at all times. You also have disadvantage on attack rolls with weapons other than this one, unless no foe is within 60 feet of you that you can see or hear. Whenever a hostile creature damages you while the axe is in your possession, you must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or go berserk. While berserk, you must use your action each round to attack the creature nearest to you with the axe. If you can make extra attacks as part of the Attack action, you use those extra attacks, moving to attack the next nearest creature after you fell your current target. If you have multiple possible targets, you attack one at random. You are berserk until you start your turn with no creatures within 60 feet of you that you can see or hear.",,
Mace of Smiting,Weapon (mace),Rare,4000 gp,,"Heavy iron mace. You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. The bonus increases to +3 when you use the mace to attack a construct. When you roll a 20 on an attack roll made with this weapon, the target takes an extra 7 bludgeoning damage, or 14 bludgeoning damage if it's a construct. If a construct has 25 hit points or fewer after taking this damage, it is destroyed.",,
Bracers of defense,Equipment (bracers),Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"Once affixed, the bracers appear as five golden bracelets circling each forearm, from the wrist to the elbow. While wearing these bracers, you gain a +2 bonus to AC if you are wearing no armor and using no shield.",,
Life Stealing Sword,Weapon (shortsword),Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"Sword made of a dark metal. When you attack a creature with this magic weapon and roll a 20 on the attack roll, that target takes an extra 10 necrotic damage, provided that the target isn't a construct or an undead. You gain temporary hit points equal to the extra damage dealt.",,
Mace of Terror,Weapon (mace),Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"Mace made of a dark iron with the head shaped as spiked skulls. This magic weapon has 3 charges. While holding it, you can use an action and expend 1 charge to release a wave of terror. Each creature of your choice in a 30-foot radius extending from you must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of you for 1 minute. While it is frightened in this way, a creature must spend its turns trying to move as far away from you as it can, and it can't willingly move to a space within 30 feet of you. It also can't take reactions. For its action, it can use only the Dash action or try to escape from an effect that prevents it from moving. If it has nowhere it can move, the creature can use the Dodge action. At the end of each of its turns, a creature can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. The mace regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn.",,
Giant Slayer,Weapon (great axe),Rare,500 gp,,"You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. When you hit a giant with it, the giant takes an extra 2d6 damage of the weapon's type and must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or fall prone. For the purpose of this weapon, ""giant"" refers to any creature with the giant type, including ettins and trolls.",,
Mace of Disruption,Weapon (mace),Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"This mace is made of a golden alloy and its end is shaped like a sun. When you hit a fiend or an undead with this magic weapon, that creature takes an extra 2d6 radiant damage. If the target has 25 hit points or fewer after taking this damage, it must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be destroyed. On a successful save, the creature becomes frightened of you until the end of your next turn. While you hold this weapon, it sheds bright light in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 feet.",,
Vicious Weapon,Weapon (any),Rare,5000 gp,,"When you roll a 20 on your attack roll with this magic weapon, your critical hit deals an extra 7 damage of the weapon's type.",,
Belt of dwarvenkind,Equipment (belt),Rare,3000 gp,Attunemement,"While wearing this belt, you gain the following benefits: • Your Constitution score increases by 2, to a maximum of 20. • You have advantage on Charisma (Persuasion) checks made to interact with dwarves. In addition, while attuned to the belt, you have a 50 percent chance each day at dawn of growing a full beard if you're capable of growing one, or a visibly thicker beard if you already have one. • You have advantage on saving throws against poison, and you have resistance against poison damage. • You have darkvision out to a range of 60 feet. • You can speak, read, and write Dwarvish.",,
Ribbon of Speed,Wondrous item,Rare,4000 gp,,"Silvery blue silk ribbon, one inch wide and 2 feet long. While affixed to a four-legged creature, they increase the creature's walking speed by 30 feet.",,
Daern's Instant Fortress,Wondrous item,Rare,4000 gp,,"You can use an action to place this 1-inch metal cube on the ground and speak its command word. The cube rapidly grows into a fortress that remains until you use an action to speak the command word that dismisses it, which works only if the fortress is empty. The fortress is a square tower, 20 feet on a side and 30 feet high, with arrow slits on all sides and a battlement atop it. Its interior is divided into two floors, with a ladder running along one wall to connect them. The ladder ends at a trapdoor leading to the roof. When activated, the tower has a small door on the side facing you. The door opens only at your command, which you can speak as a bonus action. It is immune to the knock spell and similar magic, such as that of a chime of opening. Each creature in the area where the fortress appears must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 10d10 bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. In either case, the creature is pushed to an unoccupied space outside but next to the fortress. Objects in the area that aren't being worn or carried take this damage and are pushed automatically. The tower is made of adamantine, and its magic prevents it from being tipped over. The roof, the door, and the walls each have 100 hit points, immunity to damage from nonmagical weapons excluding siege weapons, and resistance to all other damage. Only a wish spell can repair the fortress (this use of the spell counts as replicating a spell of 8th level or lower). Each casting of wish causes the roof, the door, or one wall to regain 50 hit points.",,
Arrows +2,Amunition,Rare,2500 gp,,"You have a bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this piece of magic ammunition. The bonus is determined by the rarity of the ammunition. Once it hits a target, the ammunition is no longer magical.",,
Crossbow bolts +2,Amunition,Rare,2500 gp,,"You have a bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this piece of magic ammunition. The bonus is determined by the rarity of the ammunition. Once it hits a target, the ammunition is no longer magical.",,
Ring of Animal Influence,Equipment (ring),Rare,6000 gp,,"Wooden ring finely carved with forest animals running around it. This ring has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. While wearing the ring, you can use an action to expend 1 of its charges to cast one of the following spells: • Animal friendship (save DC 13); • Fear (save DC 13), targeting only beasts that have an Intelligence of 3 or lower; • Speak with animals.",Helmi has it,
Agony,Drug (drink or injection),Rare,2500 gp / dose,,"The distilled essence of pain. Mainly used by torturers as a social lubricant, but masochists will sometimes also seek it out. When the thick, reddish-brown liquid is ingested (via mouth), the user is hit by intense pain, making them unable to move for 2 rounds, having disadvantage on all ability checks for 1d6+1 minutes. During this time, target will likely give up any info. After the pain, user feels intense pleasure for 1d4 hours, although this is less an effect of Agony and more of them appreciating their lack of pain.",,
Bracer of Teleportation,Equipment (arm piece),Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"Brass bracer circling the arm in a simple, yet elegant design. A citrin is encased in it. This bracer has 2 charges. While wearing it, you can use an action and expend 1 charge to cast the teleport spell from it. The helm regains 1d2 expended charges daily at dawn.",,
Stone of Controlling Earth Elementals,Wondrous item,Rare,5000 gp,,"If the stone is touching the ground, you can use an action to speak its command word and summon an earth elemental, as if you had cast the conjure elemental spell. The stone can't be used this way again until the next dawn. The stone weighs 5 pounds.",,
Staff of Withering,Weapon (staff),Rare,6600 gp,"Attunement by a cleric, druid or warlock","Staff made of a twisted dark wood branch seemingly ending in the shape of a hand. This staff has 3 charges and regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. The staff can be wielded as a magic quarterstaff. On a hit, it deals damage as a normal quarterstaff, and you can expend 1 charge to deal an extra 2d10 necrotic damage to the target. In addition, the target must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or have disadvantage for 1 hour on any ability check or saving throw that uses Strength or Constitution.",,
Brazier of commanding fire elementals,Wondrous item,Rare,5000 gp,,"Banal-looking brass brazier, apart for little ""fire"" runes carved around it. Two-foot wide and two-foot high. While a fire burns in this brass brazier, you can use an action to speak the brazier's command word and summon a fire elemental, as if you had cast the conjure elemental spell. The brazier can't be used this way again until the next dawn. The brazier weighs 10 pounds.",,
Foldable Boat,Wondrous item,Rare,5000 gp,,"This object appears as a wooden box that measures 12 inches long, 6 inches wide, and 6 inches deep. It weighs 4 pounds and floats. It can be opened to store items inside. This item also has three command words, each requiring you to use an action to speak it. One command word causes the box to unfold into a boat 10 feet long, 4 feet wide, and 2 feet deep. The boat has one pair of oars, an anchor, a mast, and a lateen sail. The boat can hold up to four Medium creatures comfortably. The second command word causes the box to unfold into a ship 24 feet long, 8 feet wide, and 6 feet deep. The ship has a deck, rowing seats, five sets of oars, a steering oar, an anchor, a deck cabin, and a mast with a square sail. The ship can hold fifteen Medium creatures comfortably. When the box becomes a vessel, its weight becomes that of a normal vessel its size, and anything that was stored in the box remains in the boat. The third command word causes the folding boat to fold back into a box, provided that no creatures are aboard. Any objects in the vessel that can't fit inside the box remain outside the box as it folds. Any objects in the vessel that can fit inside the box do so.",,
Bowl of Commanding Water Elementals,Wondrous item,Rare,5000 gp,,"One-foot diameter brass bowl with exquisite carving of waves running on its inside and outside. It is weigthed by an increasingly thicker bottom for stability. It weigths 10 pounds and can contain 3 gallons. While this bowl is filled with water, you can use an action to speak the bowl's command word and summon a water elemental, as if you had cast the conjure elemental spell. The bowl can't be used this way again until the next dawn.",,
Bag of beans,Wondrous item,Rare,5000 gp,,"Inside this heavy cloth bag are 3d4 dry beans. The bag weighs 1/2 pound plus 1/4 pound for each bean it contains. If you dump the bag's contents out on the ground, they explode in a 10-foot radius, extending from the beans. Each creature in the area, including you, must make a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 5d4 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The fire ignites flammable objects in the area that aren't being worn or carried. If you remove a bean from the bag, plant it in dirt or sand, and then water it, the bean produces an effect 1 minute later from the ground where it was planted. The DM can choose an effect from the following table, determine it randomly, or create an effect. https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/om.php?vo=bag-of-beans  ",,
Boots of speed,Equipment (boots),Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"Boots of efficient but elegant design. The lacing allow good adjustment to your feet and keep them light. The heels and the sole are reinforced while keeping the foot thin. They offer surprisingly good arch support. While you wear these boots, you can use a bonus action and click the boots' heels together. If you do, the boots double your walking speed, and any creature that makes an opportunity attack against you has disadvantage on the attack roll. If you click your heels together again, you end the effect. When the boots' property has been used for a total of 10 minutes, the magic ceases to function until you finish a long rest.",,
Cube of force,Wondrous item,Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"This cube is about an inch across. Each face has a distinct marking on it that can be pressed. The cube starts with 36 charges, and it regains 1d20 expended charges daily at dawn. You can use an action to press one of the cube's faces, expending a number of charges based on the chosen face, as shown in the Cube of Force Faces table. Each face has a different effect. If the cube has insufficient charges remaining, nothing happens. Otherwise, a barrier of invisible force springs into existence, forming a cube 15 feet on a side. The barrier is centered on you, moves with you, and lasts for 1 minute, until you use an action to press the cube's sixth face, or the cube runs out of charges. You can change the barrier's effect by pressing a different face of the cube and expending the requisite number of charges, resetting the duration. If your movement causes the barrier to come into contact with a solid object that can't pass through the cube, you can't move any closer to that object as long as the barrier remains.",,
Ring of Feather Falling,Equipment (ring),Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"Silver cuff ring shaped like a feather wraped around your finger. When you fall while wearing this ring, you descend 60 feet per round and take no damage from falling.",,
Tentacle Rod,Wondrous item,Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"Made by the drow, this rod is a magic weapon that ends in three rubbery tentacles. While holding the rod, you can use an action to direct each tentacle to attack a creature you can see within 15 feet of you. Each tentacle makes a melee attack roll with a +9 bonus. On a hit, the tentacle deals 1d6 bludgeoning damage. If you hit a target with all three tentacles, it must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the creature's speed is halved, it has disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws, and it can't use reactions for 1 minute. Moreover, on each of its turns, it can take either an action or a bonus action, but not both. At the end of each of its turns, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success.",,
Ring of Evasion,Equipment (ring),Rare,5500 gp,Attunement,"Silver ring with a hummingbird. This ring has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. When you fail a Dexterity saving throw while wearing it, you can use your reaction to expend 1 of its charges to succeed on that saving throw instead. ",,
Dimensional Shackles,Wondrous item,Rare,5000 gp,,"Shackles of an unknown golden metal. On the bracelets is carved a simplified representation of the map of dimensions. You can use an action to place these shackles on an incapacitated creature. The shackles adjust to fit a creature of Small to Large size. In addition to serving as mundane manacles, the shackles prevent a creature bound by them from using any method of extradimensional movement, including teleportation or travel to a different plane of existence. They don't prevent the creature from passing through an interdimensional portal. You and any creature you designate when you use the shackles can use an action to remove them. Once every 30 days, the bound creature can make a DC 30 Strength (Athletics) check. On a success, the creature breaks free and destroys the shackles.",,
Cloak of displacement,Equipment (cloak),Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,"Covering cloak made in a thick dark grey fabric that is still light and has a slight shimmer to it. While you wear this cloak, it projects an illusion that makes you appear to be standing in a place near your actual location, causing any creature to have disadvantage on attack rolls against you. If you take damage, the property ceases to function until the start of your next turn. This property is suppressed while you are incapacitated, restrained, or otherwise unable to move.",,
Bead of force,Wondrous item,Rare,600 gp,,"This small black sphere measures 3/4 of an inch in diameter and weighs an ounce. Typically, 1d4 + 4 beads of force are found together. You can use an action to throw the bead up to 60 feet. The bead explodes on impact and is destroyed. Each creature within a 10-foot radius of where the bead landed must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 5d4 force damage. A sphere of transparent force then encloses the area for 1 minute. Any creature that failed the save and is completely within the area is trapped inside this sphere. Creatures that succeeded on the save, or are partially within the area, are pushed away from the center of the sphere until they are no longer inside it. Only breathable air can pass through the sphere's wall. No attack or other effect can. An enclosed creature can use its action to push against the sphere's wall, moving the sphere up to half the creature's walking speed. The sphere can be picked up, and its magic causes it to weigh only 1 pound, regardless of the weight of creatures inside.",,
Flame tongue,Weapon (glaive),Rare,6000 gp,Attunement,"You can use a bonus action to speak this magic weapon's command word, causing flames to erupt from the blade. These flames shed bright light in a 40-foot radius and dim light for an additional 40 feet. While the weapon is ablaze, it deals an extra 2d6 fire damage to any target it hits. The flames last until you use a bonus action to speak the command word again or until you drop or sheathe the sword.",D20,D20
Ring of Cold Resistance,Equipment (ring),Rare,5500 gp,Attunement,Gold ring set with a tourmaline. You have resistance to cold damage while wearing this ring.,Jeweler,
Ring of Resistance,Equipment (ring),Rare,5000 gp,Attunement,Gold ring set with a round gem. You have resistance to one damage type while wearing this ring. The gem in the ring indicates the type. https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/om.php?vo=ring-of-resistance ,Jeweler,
Ring of Free Action,Equipment (ring),Rare,7000 gp,Attunement,"Thick but simple silver cuff ring mounted with a clear blue topaz. While you wear this ring, difficult terrain doesn't cost you extra movement. In addition, magic can neither reduce your speed nor cause you to be paralyzed or restrained.",,
Portable Hole,Wondrous Item,Rare,5000 gp,,"This fine black cloth, soft as silk, is folded up to the dimensions of a handkerchief. It unfolds into a circular sheet 6 feet in diameter. You can use an action to unfold a portable hole and place it on or against a solid surface, whereupon the portable hole creates an extradimensional hole 10 feet deep. The cylindrical space within the hole exists on a different plane, so it can't be used to create open passages. Any creature inside an open portable hole can exit the hole by climbing out of it. You can use an action to close a portable hole by taking hold of the edges of the cloth and folding it up. Folding the cloth closes the hole, and any creatures or objects within remain in the extradimensional space. No matter what's in it, the hole weighs next to nothing. More rules: https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/om.php?vo=portable-hole ",,
Helm of Telepathy,Equipment (head piece),Rare,6000 gp,Attunement,"Thick, terrifying-looking brass helm. The networking of brass and leather on the head appears as monstrous grey matter and the metallic reinforcements make the neck look thick and the eyes look insectoid. Purple leanses hide the eyes, making  While wearing this helm, you can use an action to cast the detect thoughts spell (save DC 15) from it. As long as you maintain concentration on the spell, you can use a bonus action to send a telepathic message to a creature you are focused on. It can reply—using a bonus action to do so—while your focus on it continues. While focusing on a creature with detect thoughts, you can use an action to cast the suggestion spell (save DC 15) from the helm on that creature. Once used, the suggestion property can't be used again until the next dawn.",,
Censer of Controlling Air Elementals,Wondrous item,Rare,6000 gp,,"This 6-inche wide, 1-foot tall vessel ressembles a chalice. It is made of red porcelaine painted with yellow patterns of clouds and arcane runes. While incense is burning in this censer, you can use an action to speak the censer's command word and summon an air elemental, as if you had cast the conjure elemental spell. The censer can't be used this way again until the next dawn.",,
Fang of Venom,Weapon (rapier),Rare,7000 gp,,"Sharp and swift rapier. Its hilt is carved to look like a serpent head, with detailed scaled and tiny emeralds as eyes. You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. You can use an action to cause thick, black poison to coat the blade. The poison remains for 1 minute or until an attack using this weapon hits a creature. That creature must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 2d10 poison damage and become poisoned for 1 minute. The dagger can't be used this way again until the next dawn.",,
Ioun Stone of Protection,Equipment (headgear),Rare,7000 gp,Attunement,"Uppon attunement, this dusty rose prism fixes itself magically in the center of your forhead.You gain a +1 bonus to AC.",,
Elven Chain,Armor (chain shirt),Rare,7500 gp,,"You gain a +1 bonus to AC while you wear this armor. (So, AC is 14 + Dex bonus max 2) You are considered proficient with this armor even if you lack proficiency with medium armor.",Mummy,
Dragon Slayer Arrow,Weapon (ammunition),Rare,750 gp,,"Arrow made of a dark-colored metal and feathers on a straight and clear wood. You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. When you hit a dragon with this weapon, the dragon takes an extra 3d6 piercing damage. For the purpose of this weapon, ""dragon"" refers to any creature with the dragon type, including dragon turtles and wyverns.",,
Monster Hunter Glaive,Weapon (glaive),Rare,7500 gp,,"Glaive with silver inserts in the iron blaide and along the shaft. You gain a +1 bonus to attacks and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. When you hit a monstruosity with this weapon, the monstruosity takes an extra 3d6 damage of the weapon's type. ",,
Dragon Slayer,Weapon (sword),Rare,7500 gp,,"Sword made of a dark-colored metal with the hilt incised with small scales of different colours. You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. When you hit a dragon with this weapon, the dragon takes an extra 3d6 damage of the weapon's type. For the purpose of this weapon, ""dragon"" refers to any creature with the dragon type, including dragon turtles and wyverns.",,
Elixir of Health,Potion,Rare,800 gp,,"When you drink this potion, it cures any disease afflicting you, and it removes the blinded, deafened, paralyzed, and poisoned conditions. The clear red liquid has tiny bubbles of light in it.",D20,
Sword of Wounding,Weapon (sword),Rare,6000 gp,Attunement,"Hit points lost to this weapon's damage can be regained only through a short or long rest, rather than by regeneration, magic, or any other means. Once per turn, when you hit a creature with an attack using this magic weapon, you can wound the target. At the start of each of the wounded creature's turns, it takes 1d4 necrotic damage for each time you've wounded it, and it can then make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, ending the effect of all such wounds on itself on a success. Alternatively, the wounded creature, or a creature within 5 feet of it, can use an action to make a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check, ending the effect of such wounds on it on a success.",,
Staff of the Woodlands,Weapon (staff),Rare,6000 gp,Attunement by a druid,"Staff that looks somehow like a thin, elongated, twisted bonsai tree with small branches and leaves at the top. This staff can be wielded as a magic quarterstaff that grants a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. While holding it, you have a +2 bonus to spell attack rolls. The staff has 10 charges for the following properties. It regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the staff loses its properties and becomes a nonmagical quarterstaff. Spells. You can use an action to expend 1 or more of the staff's charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC: animal friendship (1 charge), awaken (5 charges), barkskin (2 charges), locate animals or plants (2 charges), speak with animals (1 charge), speak with plants (3 charges), or wall of thorns (6 charges). You can also use an action to cast the pass without trace spell from the staff without using any charges. Tree Form. You can use an action to plant one end of the staff in fertile earth and expend 1 charge to transform the staff into a healthy tree. The tree is 60 feet tall and has a 5-foot diameter trunk, and its branches at the top spread out in a 20-foot radius. The tree appears ordinary but radiates a faint aura of transmutation magic if targeted by detect magic. While touching the tree and using another action to speak its command word, you return the staff to its normal form. Any creature in the tree falls when it reverts to a staff.",,
Staff of Charming,Weapon (staff),Rare,6000 gp,"Attunement by a bard, cleric, druid, sorcerer, warlock, or wizard","Golden staff of elegant design. While holding this staff, you can use an action to expend 1 of its 10 charges to cast charm person, command, or comprehend languages from it using your spell save DC. The staff can also be used as a magic quarterstaff. If you are holding the staff and fail a saving throw against an enchantment spell that targets only you, you can turn your failed save into a successful one. You can't use this property of the staff again until the next dawn. If you succeed on a save against an enchantment spell that targets only you, with or without the staff's intervention, you can use your reaction to expend 1 charge from the staff and turn the spell back on its caster as if you had cast the spell. The staff regains 1d8 + 2 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the staff becomes a nonmagical quarterstaff.",,Kathel?
Scale of Destruction's Light,Armor (scale mail),Rare,8000 gp,Attunement,"This armor was made out of plates taken from Sunblight's chardalyn dragon. As a Medium Armor, your AC is of 14 + Dex modifier (max 2). You have disadvantage on stealth checks. While wearing this armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC, you have advantage on saving throws against the Frightful Presence and breath weapons of dragons, and you have resistance to magical damage. Additionally, you can focus your senses as an action to magically discern the distance and direction to the closest chardalyn within 30 miles of you. This special action can't be used again until the next dawn. CURSE: prolonged contact with chardalyn will cause a character to develop a type of madness. Separation from the armor and remove curse or spell with similar effect are the only way to get rid of the madness.",,
Earring of Comprehending Languages,Equipment (earring),Rare,6000 gp,Attunement,"Golden earring with a dangling saphir. While wearing this earring, you can use an action to cast the comprehend languages spell from it at will.",,Traveler
Mantle of Spell Resistance,Equipment (cape),Rare,7000 gp,Attunement,"Cloak made of a thick, expensive-looking dark blue fabric. You have advantage on saving throws against spells while you wear this cloak.",,Traveler
Rod of Ruleship,Wondrous item,Rare,7000 gp,Attunement,"You can use an action to present the rod and command obedience from each creature of your choice that you can see within 120 feet of you. Each target must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by you for 8 hours. While charmed in this way, the creature regards you as its trusted leader. If harmed by you or your companions, or commanded to do something contrary to its nature, a target ceases to be charmed in this way. The rod can't be used again until the next dawn.",,Musée des Shane
Staff of Swarming Insects,Weapon (staff),Rare,5000 gp,"Attunement by a bard, cleric, druid, sorcerer, warlock, or wizard","Staff made of wood and brass melted around multiple stones included in it. This staff has 10 charges and regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, a swarm of insects consumes and destroys the staff, then disperses. Spells. While holding the staff, you can use an action to expend some of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC: giant insect (4 charges) or insect plague (5 charges). Insect Cloud. While holding the staff, you can use an action and expend 1 charge to cause a swarm of harmless flying insects to spread out in a 30-foot radius from you. The insects remain for 10 minutes, making the area heavily obscured for creatures other than you. The swarm moves with you, remaining centered on you. A wind of at least 10 miles per hour disperses the swarm and ends the effect.",,
Staff of Healing,Weapon (staff),Rare,5000 gp,"Attunement by a bard, cleric or druid","This staff was carved from a twisted tree branch and holds a stone at its extremity. When charged, the stoned is a dark pink that progressively changes to a pure white as the charges are spent. This staff has 10 charges. While holding it, you can use an action to expend 1 or more of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC and spellcasting ability modifier: cure wounds (1 charge per spell level, up to 4th), lesser restoration (2 charges), or mass cure wounds (5 charges). The staff regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the staff vanishes in a flash of light, lost forever.",,
Shield +3,Shield,Very rare,50000 gp,,"While holding this shield, you have a bonus to AC determined by the shield's rarity. This bonus is in addition to the shield's normal bonus to AC.",,
Rod of Absorbtion,Wondrous item,Very rare,50000 gp,Attunement,"While holding this rod, you can use your reaction to absorb a spell that is targeting only you and not with an area of effect. The absorbed spell's effect is canceled, and the spell's energy—not the spell itself—is stored in the rod. The energy has the same level as the spell when it was cast. The rod can absorb and store up to 50 levels of energy over the course of its existence. Once the rod absorbs 50 levels of energy, it can't absorb more. If you are targeted by a spell that the rod can't store, the rod has no effect on that spell. When you become attuned to the rod, you know how many levels of energy the rod has absorbed over the course of its existence, and how many levels of spell energy it currently has stored. If you are a spellcaster holding the rod, you can convert energy stored in it into spell slots to cast spells you have prepared or know. You can create spell slots only of a level equal to or lower than your own spell slots, up to a maximum of 5th level. You use the stored levels in place of your slots, but otherwise cast the spell as normal. For example, you can use 3 levels stored in the rod as a 3rd-level spell slot. A newly found rod has 1d10 levels of spell energy stored in it already. A rod that can no longer absorb spell energy and has no energy remaining becomes nonmagical.",,
Rod of Security,Wondrous item,Very rare,70000 gp,,"While holding this rod, you can use an action to activate it. The rod then instantly transports you and up to 199 other willing creatures you can see to a paradise that exists in an extraplanar space. You choose the form that the paradise takes. It could be a tranquil garden, lovely glade, cheery tavern, immense palace, tropical island, fantastic carnival, or whatever else you can imagine. Regardless of its nature, the paradise contains enough water and food to sustain its visitors. Everything else that can be interacted with inside the extraplanar space can exist only there. For example, a flower picked from a garden in the paradise disappears if it is taken outside the extraplanar space. For each hour spent in the paradise, a visitor regains hit points as if it had spent 1 Hit Die. Also, creatures don't age while in the paradise, although time passes normally. Visitors can remain in the paradise for up to 200 days divided by the number of creatures present (round down). When the time runs out or you use an action to end it, all visitors reappear in the location they occupied when you activated the rod, or an unoccupied space nearest that location. The rod can't be used again until ten days have passed.",,
Robe of Scintillating Colors,Equipment (robe),Very rare,50000 gp,Attunement,"Normal-looking thick grey robe. This robe has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. While you wear it, you can use an action and expend 1 charge to cause the garment to display a shifting pattern of dazzling hues until the end of your next turn. During this time, the robe sheds bright light in a 30-foot radius and dim light for an additional 30 feet. Creatures that can see you have disadvantage on attack rolls against you. In addition, any creature in the bright light that can see you when the robe's power is activated must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or become stunned until the effect ends.",,
Ring of Telekinesis,Equipment (ring),Very rare,50000 gp,Attunement,"Silver ring set with a massive, unpolished topaz held with several hooks. While wearing this ring, you can cast the telekinesis spell at will, but you can target only objects that aren't being worn or carried.",,
Potion of Flying,Potion,Very rare,27000 gp,,"When you drink this potion, you gain a flying speed equal to your walking speed for 1 hour and can hover. If you're in the air when the potion wears off, you fall unless you have some other means of staying aloft. This potion's clear liquid floats at the top of its container and has cloudy white impurities drifting in it.",,
Potion of Cloud Giant Strength,Potion,Very rare,26000 gp,,"When you drink this potion, your Strength score changes to 27 for 1 hour. The potion has no effect on you if your Strength is equal to or greater than that score. This potion's transparent liquid has floating in it a sliver of fingernail from a giant of the appropriate type.",,
Potion of Speed,Potion,Very rare,27000 gp,,"When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of the haste spell for 1 minute (no concentration required). The potion's yellow fluid is streaked with black and swirls on its own.",,
Potion of Vitality,Potion ,Very rare,27500 gp,,"When you drink this potion, it removes any exhaustion you are suffering and cures any disease or poison affecting you. For the next 24 hours, you regain the maximum number of hit points for any Hit Die you spend. The potion's crimson liquid regularly pulses with dull light, calling to mind a heartbeat.",,
Oil of Sharpness,Potion,Very rare,27700 gp ,,"This clear, gelatinous oil sparkles with tiny, ultrathin silver shards. The oil can coat one slashing or piercing weapon or up to 5 pieces of slashing or piercing ammunition. Applying the oil takes 1 minute. For 1 hour, the coated item is magical and has a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls.",D20,
Potion of Longevity,Potion,Very rare,29000 gp,,"When you drink this potion, your physical age is reduced by 1d6 + 6 years, to a minimum of 13 years. Each time you subsequently drink a potion of longevity, there is 10 percent cumulative chance that you instead age by 1d6 + 6 years. Suspended in this amber liquid are a scorpion's tail, an adder's fang, a dead spider, and a tiny heart that, against all reason, is still beating. These ingredients vanish when the potion is opened.",D20,
Manual of Golems,Wondrous item (book),Very rare,40000 gp,,"This tome contains information and incantations necessary to make a particular type of golem. The DM chooses the type or determines it randomly. To decipher and use the manual, you must be a spellcaster with at least two 5th-level spell slots. A creature that can't use a manual of golems and attempts to read it takes 6d6 psychic damage. https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/om.php?vo=manual-of-golems ",,
Tome of Clear Thoughts,Wondrous item (book),Very rare,40000 gp,,"This book contains memory and logic exercises, and its words are charged with magic. If you spend 48 hours over a period of 6 days or fewer studying the book's contents and practicing its guidelines, your Intelligence score increases by 2, as does your maximum for that score. The manual then loses its magic, but regains it in a century.",,
Tome of Leadership and Influence,Wondrous item (book),Very rare,40000 gp,,"This book contains guidelines for influencing and charming others, and its words are charged with magic. If you spend 48 hours over a period of 6 days or fewer studying the book's contents and practicing its guidelines, your Charisma score increases by 2, as does your maximum for that score. The manual then loses its magic, but regains it in a century.",,
Tome of Understanding,Wondrous item (book),Very rare,40000 gp,,"This book contains intuition and insight exercises, and its words are charged with magic. If you spend 48 hours over a period of 6 days or fewer studying the book's contents and practicing its guidelines, your Wisdom score increases by 2, as does your maximum for that score. The manual then loses its magic, but regains it in a century.",,
Staff of Striking,Weapon (staff),Very rare,50000 gp,Attunement,"Staff made of thick bamboo. Arcane runes are carved on both ends. This staff can be wielded as a magic quarterstaff that grants a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. The staff has 10 charges. When you hit with a melee attack using it, you can expend up to 3 of its charges. For each charge you expend, the target takes an extra 1d6 force damage. The staff regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the staff becomes a nonmagical quarterstaff.",,
Staff of Fire,Weapon (staff),Very rare,50000 gp,"Attunement by a druid, sorcerer, warlock or wizard","Bronze staff ending with a torch. You have resistance to fire damage while you hold this staff. The staff has 10 charges. While holding it, you can use an action to expend 1 or more of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC: burning hands (1 charge), fireball (3 charges), or wall of fire (4 charges). The staff regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the staff blackens, crumbles into cinders, and is destroyed.",,
Staff of Frost,Weapon (staff),Very rare,50000 gp,"Attunement by a druid, sorcerer, warlock or wizard","This staff seems to be carved out of unmeltable ice. Part of it is wraped in a piece of leather to hold it more confortably. You have resistance to cold damage while you hold this staff. The staff has 10 charges. While holding it, you can use an action to expend 1 or more of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC: cone of cold (5 charges), fog cloud (1 charge), ice storm (4 charges), or wall of ice (4 charges). The staff regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the staff turns to water and is destroyed.",,
Nine Lives Stealer,Weapon (short sword),Very rare,45000 gp,,"Shortsword of blackish metal. The hilt is sculpted as a skull in which a ruby is embedded. You gain a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. The sword has 1d8 + 1 charges. If you score a critical hit against a creature that has fewer than 100 hit points, it must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be slain instantly as the sword tears its life force from its body (a construct or an undead is immune). The sword loses 1 charge if the creature is slain. When the sword has no charges remaining, it loses this property.",,
Frostbite,Drug (pipe weed),Very rare,1000 gp / 100 g,,"A mix of rare blue lichen which grows on the trees in northern forests and white lingonberries, dried and smoked in a pipe. Produces a numbing as well as hallucinogenic effect. Illegal. Effects – resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, force, and thunder damage, -5 initiative, weakness to psychic damage; lasts 6 hours. Addiction – upon each dose roll for an addiction saving throw, Wisdom vs DC18-number of doses previously not resisted (max 10) to resist. Upon each long rest, roll for an addiction saving throw, identical to above; success removes 1 DC from the next addiction save, failure results in -2 initiative for day. DC 8-10 – minor hallucinations mix with reality, but the subject remains aware. -2 to initiative persists 2 more hours beyond end of effects. DC 11-15 – hallucinogenic trip. subject is considered blind to reality. -4 initiative and disadvantage on reflex saves which both last 2 more hours beyond end of effects. DC 16-18 - subject blacks out and is incapacitated. but -6 initiative, disadvantage on reflex saves, and slowed, all three of which both last 2 more hours beyond end of effects.",,
Arrows +3,Amunition,Very rare,5000 g,,"You have a bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this piece of magic ammunition. The bonus is determined by the rarity of the ammunition. Once it hits a target, the ammunition is no longer magical.",,
Crossbow bolts +3,Amunition,Very rare,5000 gp,,"You have a bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this piece of magic ammunition. The bonus is determined by the rarity of the ammunition. Once it hits a target, the ammunition is no longer magical.",,
Spellguard Shield,Shield,Very rare,50000 gp,Attunement,"While holding this shield, you have advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects, and spell attacks have disadvantage against you.",,
Scimitar of Speed,Weapon (scimitar),Very rare,50000 gp,Attunement,"You gain a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. In addition, you can make one attack with it as a bonus action on each of your turns.",,
Frost Brand,Weapon (sword),Very rare,50000 gp,Attunement,"When you hit with an attack using this magic sword, the target takes an extra 1d6 cold damage. In addition, while you hold the sword, you have resistance to fire damage. In freezing temperatures, the blade sheds bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet.
When you draw this weapon, you can extinguish all nonmagical flames within 30 feet of you. This property can be used no more than once per hour.",,
Demon Armor,Armor (plate),Very rare,50000 gp,Attunement,"Heavy armor. While wearing this armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC (so total of 19), and you can understand and speak Abyssal. In addition, the armor's clawed gauntlets turn unarmed strikes with your hands into magic weapons that deal slashing damage, with a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls and a damage die of 1d8. As a plate armor, it gives disadvantage on stealth checks. - Curse. Once you don this cursed armor, you can't doff it unless you are targeted by the remove curse spell or similar magic. While wearing the armor, you have disadvantage on attack rolls against demons and on saving throws against their spells and special abilities.",,
Dwarven Thrower,Weapon (hammer),Very rare,50000 gp,Attunement by a dwarf,"Heavy steel hammer of simple yet elegant design. On one side, the stamp of the blacksmith who made it. One the other, an emerald big as a eye. You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. It has the thrown property with a normal range of 20 feet and a long range of 60 feet. When you hit with a ranged attack using this weapon, it deals an extra 1d8 damage or, if the target is a giant, 2d8 damage. Immediately after the attack, the weapon flies back to your hand.",,
Ioun Stone of Absorption,Equipment (headgear),Very rare,18000 gp,Attunement,"This pale lavender ellipsoid magical stone is mounted on a simple but elegant silver circlet. While wearing it, you can use your reaction to cancel a spell cast by a creature you can see and targeting only you. Once the stone has canceled 20 levels of spells, it burns out and turns dull gray, losing its magic. If you are targeted by a spell whose level is higher than the number of spell levels the stone has left, the stone can't cancel it. A stone has AC 24, 10 hit points, and resistance to all damage.",,
Ioun Stone of Insight,Equipment (headgear),Very rare,18000 gp,Attunement,"Your Wisdom score increases by 2, to a maximum of 20, while this incandescent blue sphere orbits your head. When you use an action to toss one of these stones into the air, the stone orbits your head at a distance of 1d3 feet and confers a benefit to you. Thereafter, another creature must use an action to grasp or net the stone to separate it from you, either by making a successful attack roll against AC 24 or a successful DC 24 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. You can use an action to seize and stow the stone, ending its effect. A stone has AC 24, 10 hit points, and resistance to all damage. It is considered to be an object that is being worn while it orbits your head.",,
Bag of devouring,Wondrous item,Very rare,20000 gp,,"This bag superficially resembles a bag of holding but is a feeding orifice for a gigantic extradimensional creature. Turning the bag inside out closes the orifice. The extradimensional creature attached to the bag can sense whatever is placed inside the bag. Animal or vegetable matter placed wholly in the bag is devoured and lost forever. When part of a living creature is placed in the bag, as happens when someone reaches inside it, there is a 50 percent chance that the creature is pulled inside the bag. A creature inside the bag can use its action to try to escape with a successful DC 15 Strength check. Another creature can use its action to reach into the bag to pull a creature out, doing so with a successful DC 20 Strength check (provided it isn't pulled inside the bag first). Any creature that starts its turn inside the bag is devoured, its body destroyed. Inanimate objects can be stored in the bag, which can hold a cubic foot of such material. However, once each day, the bag swallows any objects inside it and spits them out into another plane of existence. The DM determines the time and plane. If the bag is pierced or torn, it is destroyed, and anything contained within it is transported to a random location on the Astral Plane.",D20,
Bronze Horn of Valhalla,Wondrous item,Very rare,50000 gp,,"You can use an action to blow this horn. In response, 4d4 + 4 warrior spirits from the Valhalla appear within 60 feet of you. They use the statistics of a berserker. They return to Valhalla after 1 hour or when they drop to 0 hit points. Once you use the horn, it can't be used again until 7 days have passed. If you blow the horn without being proficient with all medium armor, the summoned berserkers attack you. If you meet the requirement, they are friendly to you and your companions and follow your commands. ",,
Bolt of sea monster slaying,Amunition,Very rare,5000 gp,,"Magic weapon meant to slay a particular kind of creature. If a creature belonging to the type, race, or group associated with the bolt of slaying (sea monster or aquatic beast) takes damage from the arrow, the creature must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking an extra 6d10 piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much extra damage on a successful one. Once an arrow of slaying deals its extra damage to a creature, it becomes a nonmagical arrow.",,
Styxroot,Drug (tea or snack),Very rare,2000 gp / 100 g,,"A root that grows on the margins of the river Styx in the Seven Hells. Eating it raw or making tea out of it makes the individual unable to remember anything that happens to them for the next 8 hours. A constitution saving throw of 12 lowers it to 6 hours, 15 to 4 hours, 18 to 1 hour, or 20 to completely ignore the effect.",,
Hair Strand of a Zephyr,Wondrous item,Very rare,20000 gp,,"Fine silvery hair strand about 40 cm long. When affixed to a 4-legged creature, it allow it to move normally while floating 4 inches above the ground. This effect means the creature can cross or stand above nonsolid or unstable surfaces, such as water or lava. The creature leaves no tracks and ignores difficult terrain. In addition, the creature can move at normal speed for up to 12 hours a day without suffering exhaustion from a forced march.",,
Potion of supreme healing,Potion,Very rare,20000 gp,,10d4 + 20 Healing,,
Ring of Regeneration,Equipment (ring),Very rare,70000 gp,Attunement,"Thin wooden ring carved with vine patterns. While wearing this ring, you regain 1d6 hit points every 10 minutes, provided that you have at least 1 hit point. If you lose a body part, the ring causes the missing part to regrow and return to full functionality after 1d6 + 1 days if you have at least 1 hit point the whole time.",,
Levistus's taper,Wondrous item,Very rare,2500 gp,Attunement,"10 cm thick, 30 cm tall blue candle with black markings sculpted in the wax. The runes are there to honour the Rogue Archedevil. The candle's magic is activated when the candle is lit, which requires an action. After burning for 4 hours, the candle is destroyed. You can snuff it out early for use at a later time. Deduct the time it burned in increments of 1 minute from the candle's total burn time.
While lit, the candle sheds dim light in a 30-foot radius. Any creature within that light whose alignment matches that of the candle (lawful evil) or a connection with the divinity (being possesed, for instance) makes attack rolls, saving throws, and ability checks with advantage. In addition, a cleric or druid in the light whose alignment matches the candle's can cast 1st-level spells he or she has prepared without expending spell slots, though the spell's effect is as if cast with a 1st-level slot. A character with a connection to the divinity but not sharing their evil alignement, when using the candle for 1 hour, risks of getting a corruption point.
Alternatively, when you light the candle for the first time, you can cast the gate spell with it. Doing so destroys the candle.",,
Amaunator's taper,Wondrous item,Very rare,1500 gp,Attunement,"10 cm thick, 30 cm tall white candle with golden markings sculpted in the wax. The runes are there to honour the Morning Lord. The candle's magic is activated when the candle is lit, which requires an action. After burning for 4 hours, the candle is destroyed. You can snuff it out early for use at a later time. Deduct the time it burned in increments of 1 minute from the candle's total burn time.
While lit, the candle sheds dim light in a 30-foot radius. Any creature within that light whose alignment matches that of the candle (lawful neutral) makes attack rolls, saving throws, and ability checks with advantage. In addition, a cleric or druid in the light whose alignment matches the candle's can cast 1st-level spells he or she has prepared without expending spell slots, though the spell's effect is as if cast with a 1st-level slot.
Alternatively, when you light the candle for the first time, you can cast the gate spell with it. Doing so destroys the candle.",In the secret library in the House of the Morning Lord,
Auril's taper,Wondrous item,Very rare,2500 gp,Attunement,"10 cm thick, 30 cm tall white candle with silver markings sculpted in the wax. The runes are there to honour the Frostmaiden. The candle's magic is activated when the candle is lit, which requires an action. After burning for 4 hours, the candle is destroyed. You can snuff it out early for use at a later time. Deduct the time it burned in increments of 1 minute from the candle's total burn time.
While lit, the candle sheds dim light in a 30-foot radius. Any creature within that light whose alignment matches that of the candle (neutral evil) or a connection with the divinity (Auril's blessing, for instance) makes attack rolls, saving throws, and ability checks with advantage. In addition, a cleric or druid in the light whose alignment matches the candle's can cast 1st-level spells he or she has prepared without expending spell slots, though the spell's effect is as if cast with a 1st-level slot. A character with a connection to the divinity but not sharing ther evil alignement, when using the candle for 1 hour, risks getting a corruption point.
Alternatively, when you light the candle for the first time, you can cast the gate spell with it. Doing so destroys the candle.",,
Scale of the White Wyrm,Armor (scale mail),Very rare,25000 gp,Attunement,"This armor consists of a coat and leggings of leather covered with overlapping white scales. The suit includes gauntlets. As a Medium Armor, your AC is of 14 + Dex modifier (max 2). You have disadvantage on stealth checks. While wearing this armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC, you have advantage on saving throws against the Frightful Presence and breath weapons of dragons, and you have resistance to cold damage. Additionally, you can focus your senses as an action to magically discern the distance and direction to the closest dragon within 30 miles of you that is of the same type as the armor. This special action can't be used again until the next dawn.",,
Efreeti Bottle,Wondrous item,Very rare,30000 gp,,"This painted brass bottle weighs 1 pound. When you use an action to remove the stopper, a cloud of thick smoke flows out of the bottle. At the end of your turn, the smoke disappears with a flash of harmless fire, and an efreeti appears in an unoccupied space within 30 feet of you. The first time the bottle is opened, the DM rolls to determine what happens. https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/om.php?vo=efreeti-bottle ",,
Dancing Sword,Weapon (sword),Very rare,40000 gp,Attunement,"Fancy-looking sword with a long, thin blade and a hand gard carved as two open wings around a clear blue gem. At the end of the hilt is attached two ribbons of the same colour. You can use a bonus action to toss this magic sword into the air and speak the command word. When you do so, the sword begins to hover, flies up to 30 feet, and attacks one creature of your choice within 5 feet of it. The sword uses your attack roll and ability score modifier to damage rolls. While the sword hovers, you can use a bonus action to cause it to fly up to 30 feet to another spot within 30 feet of you. As part of the same bonus action, you can cause the sword to attack one creature within 5 feet of it. After the hovering sword attacks for the fourth time, it flies up to 30 feet and tries to return to your hand. If you have no hand free, it falls to the ground at your feet. If the sword has no unobstructed path to you, it moves as close to you as it can and then falls to the ground. It also ceases to hover if you grasp it or move more than 30 feet away from it.",,
Ioun Stones of Leadership,Equipment (earrings),Very rare,40000 gp,Attunement,"This set of earrings is made of a gold stud to which are suspended, on one side a green gem, and a simlar gem, but pink on the other. While wearing the set, your Charisma score increases by 2, to a maximum of 20.",,
Dwarven Plate,Armor (plate),Very rare,50000 gp,,"While wearing this armor, you gain a +2 bonus to AC. In addition, if an effect moves you against your will along the ground, you can use your reaction to reduce the distance you are moved by up to 10 feet. This armor is fitted for dwarves and gives disavantage to stealth checks.",,
Belt of Frost Giant Strength,Equipment (belt),Very rare,50000 gp,Attunement,"Belt of blackened leather polished through wear orned by a buckle in which is carved the dwarvish rune for winter. While wearing this belt, your Strength score changes to 23. The item has no effect on you if your Strength without the belt is equal to or greater than the belt's score.",,
Leather of the metal idol,Armor (studded leather),Very rare,50000 gp,,"This light armor is made from tough but flexible leather, studded leather is reinforced with close-set rivets or spikes. It protects you and would look great with black hair, piercings and black and white makeup. You have a bonus to AC of +2 while wearing this armor. ",,
Oathbow,Weapon (longbow),Very rare,77000 gp,Attunement,"Bow made of dark wood and elvish carvings picturing vines and the text ""Swift death to you who have wronged me."" When you nock an arrow on this bow, it whispers in Elvish, ""Swift defeat to my enemies."" When you use this weapon to make a ranged attack, you can, as a command phrase, say, ""Swift death to you who have wronged me."" The target of your attack becomes your sworn enemy until it dies or until dawn seven days later. You can have only one such sworn enemy at a time. When your sworn enemy dies, you can choose a new one after the next dawn. When you make a ranged attack roll with this weapon against your sworn enemy, you have advantage on the roll. In addition, your target gains no benefit from cover, other than total cover, and you suffer no disadvantage due to long range. If the attack hits, your sworn enemy takes an extra 3d6 piercing damage. While your sworn enemy lives, you have disadvantage on attack rolls with all other weapons.",Found in the first half-moon tomb in the Lonelywood elven tomb.,
Sword of Sharpness,Weapon (sword),Very rare,70000 gp,Attunement,"When you attack an object with this magic sword and hit, maximize your weapon damage dice against the target. When you attack a creature with this weapon and roll a 20 on the attack roll, that target takes an extra 14 slashing damage. Then roll another d20. If you roll a 20, you lop off one of the target's limbs, with the effect of such loss determined by the DM. If the creature has no limb to sever, you lop off a portion of its body instead. In addition, you can speak the sword's command word to cause the blade to shed bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet. Speaking the command word again or sheathing the sword puts out the light.",,
Arrow of dragon slaying,Amunition,Very rare,25000 gp,,"Magic weapon meant to slay a particular kind of creature. If a creature belonging to the type, race, or group associated with an arrow of slaying takes damage from the arrow, the creature must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking an extra 6d10 piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much extra damage on a successful one. Once an arrow of slaying deals its extra damage to a creature, it becomes a nonmagical arrow.",,
Bolt of dragon slaying,Amunition,Very rare,25000 gp,,"Magic weapon meant to slay a particular kind of creature. If a creature belonging to the type, race, or group associated with an arrow of slaying takes damage from the arrow, the creature must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, taking an extra 6d10 piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much extra damage on a successful one. Once an arrow of slaying deals its extra damage to a creature, it becomes a nonmagical arrow.",,
Ioun Stone of Intellect,Equipment (headgear),Very rare,50000 gp,Attunement,"This marbled scarlet and blue round gem is mounted on an intricate silver circlet. While wearing it, your Intelligence score increases by 2, to a maximum of 20.",,
Helm of Brilliance,Equipment (headgear),Very rare,50000 gp,Attunement,"Painfully bedazzling helm set with 1d10 diamonds, 2d10 rubies, 3d10 fire opals, and 4d10 opals. Any gem pried from the helm crumbles to dust. When all the gems are removed or destroyed, the helm loses its magic. You gain the following benefits while wearing it: • You can use an action to cast one of the following spells (save DC 18), using one of the helm's gems of the specified type as a component: daylight (opal), fireball (fire opal), prismatic spray (diamond), or wall of fire (ruby). The gem is destroyed when the spell is cast and disappears from the helm. • As long as it has at least one diamond, the helm emits dim light in a 30-foot radius when at least one undead is within that area. Any undead that starts its turn in that area takes 1d6 radiant damage. • As long as the helm has at least one ruby, you have resistance to fire damage. • As long as the helm has at least one fire opal, you can use an action and speak a command word to cause one weapon you are holding to burst into flames. The flames emit bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet. The flames are harmless to you and the weapon. When you hit with an attack using the blazing weapon, the target takes an extra 1d6 fire damage. The flames last until you use a bonus action to speak the command word again or until you drop or stow the weapon. Roll a d20 if you are wearing the helm and take fire damage as a result of failing a saving throw against a spell. On a roll of 1, the helm emits beams of light from its remaining gems. Each creature within 60 feet of the helm other than you must succeed on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or be struck by a beam, taking radiant damage equal to the number of gems in the helm. The helm and its gems are then destroyed.",,
Cloak of Arachnida,Equipment (cloak),Very rare,50000 gp,Attunement,"This fine garment is made of black silk interwoven with faint silvery threads. While wearing it, you gain the following benefits: you have resistance to poison damage; you have a climbing speed equal to your walking speed; you can move up, down, and across vertical surfaces and upside down along ceilings, while leaving your hands free; you can't be caught in webs of any sort and can move through webs as if they were difficult terrain; you can use an action to cast the web spell (save DC 13). The web created by the spell fills twice its normal area. Once used, this property of the cloak can't be used again until the next dawn.",,
Ioun Stone of Insight,Equipment (headgear),Very rare,70000 gp,Attunement,"This incandescent blue round gem is mounted on a silver round circlet. While wearing it, your Wisdom score increases by 2, to a maximum of 20.",,
Carpet of Flying,Wondrous item,Very rare,40000 gp,,"Beautifully made 4 ft. x 6 ft. carpet. Its main colour is a night sky blue with paler blue and white intricate patterns including snowflake and reindeer details. You can speak the carpet's command word as an action to make the carpet hover and fly. It moves according to your spoken directions, provided that you are within 30 feet of it. Its flying speed is of 60 ft. and it can carry 400 lb.",,
Rod of Alertness,Wondrous item,Very rare,50000 gp,Attunement,"This rod has a flanged head and the following properties. Alertness. While holding the rod, you have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on rolls for initiative. Spells. While holding the rod, you can use an action to cast one of the following spells from it: detect evil and good, detect magic, detect poison and disease, or see invisibility. Protective Aura. As an action, you can plant the haft end of the rod in the ground, whereupon the rod's head sheds bright light in a 60-foot radius and dim light for an additional 60 feet. While in that bright light, you and any creature that is friendly to you gain a +1 bonus to AC and saving throws and can sense the location of any invisible hostile creature that is also in the bright light. The rod's head stops glowing and the effect ends after 10 minutes, or when a creature uses an action to pull the rod from the ground. This property can't be used again until the next dawn.",,
Staff of Thunder and Lightning,Weapon (staff),Very rare,70000 gp,Attunement,"Silver staff carved so the bottom half is straight and solid, while the top starts from an intricate network of connecting ligntning strikes. Flickers of thunder energy are visible around the carved lightnings, their brightness depending of the number of charges in the staff. This staff can be wielded as a magic quarterstaff that grants a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. It also has the following additional properties. When one of these properties is used, it can't be used again until the next dawn. Lightning. When you hit with a melee attack using the staff, you can cause the target to take an extra 2d6 lightning damage. Thunder. When you hit with a melee attack using the staff, you can cause the staff to emit a crack of thunder, audible out to 300 feet. The target you hit must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or become stunned until the end of your next turn. Lightning Strike. You can use an action to cause a bolt of lightning to leap from the staff's tip in a line that is 5 feet wide and 120 feet long. Each creature in that line must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw, taking 9d6 lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Thunderclap. You can use an action to cause the staff to issue a deafening thunderclap, audible out to 600 feet. Each creature within 60 feet of you (not including you) must make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 2d6 thunder damage and becomes deafened for 1 minute. On a successful save, a creature takes half damage and isn't deafened. Thunder and Lightning. You can use an action to use the Lightning Strike and Thunderclap properties at the same time. Doing so doesn't expend the daily use of those properties, only the use of this one.",,
Staff of Power,Weapon (staff),Very rare,60000 gp,"Attunement by a sorcerer, warlock or wizard","Ths staff was carved expertly out of a dark wood essence. It is very straight and ornated only of arcane markings. This staff can be wielded as a magic quarterstaff that grants a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. While holding it, you gain a +2 bonus to Armor Class, saving throws, and spell attack rolls. The staff has 20 charges for the following properties. The staff regains 2d8 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the staff retains its +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls but loses all other properties. On a 20, the staff regains 1d8 + 2 charges. Power Strike. When you hit with a melee attack using the staff, you can expend 1 charge to deal an extra 1d6 force damage to the target. Spells. While holding this staff, you can use an action to expend 1 or more of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC and spell attack bonus: cone of cold (5 charges), fireball (5th-level version, 5 charges), globe of invulnerability (6 charges), hold monster (5 charges), levitate (2 charges), lightning bolt (5th-level version, 5 charges), magic missile (1 charge), ray of enfeeblement (1 charge), or wall of force (5 charges). Retributive Strike. You can use an action to break the staff over your knee or against a solid surface, performing a retributive strike. The staff is destroyed and releases its remaining magic in an explosion that expands to fill a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on it. You have a 50 percent chance to instantly travel to a random plane of existence, avoiding the explosion. If you fail to avoid the effect, you take force damage equal to 16 x the number of charges in the staff. Every other creature in the area must make a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes an amount of damage based on how far away it is from the point of origin, as shown in the following table. On a successful save, a creature takes half as much damage. https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/om.php?vo=staff-of-power",,Traveler
Mirror of Life Trapping,Wondrous item,Very rare,90000 gp,,"When this 4-foot-tall mirror is viewed indirectly, its surface shows faint images of creatures. The mirror weighs 50 pounds, and it has AC 11, 10 hit points, and vulnerability to bludgeoning damage. It shatters and is destroyed when reduced to 0 hit points. If the mirror is hanging on a vertical surface and you are within 5 feet of it, you can use an action to speak its command word and activate it. It remains activated until you use an action to speak the command word again. Any creature other than you that sees its reflection in the activated mirror while within 30 feet of it must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw or be trapped, along with anything it is wearing or carrying, in one of the mirror's twelve extradimensional cells. This saving throw is made with advantage if the creature knows the mirror's nature, and constructs succeed on the saving throw automatically. An extradimensional cell is an infinite expanse filled with thick fog that reduces visibility to 10 feet. Creatures trapped in the mirror's cells don't age, and they don't need to eat, drink, or sleep. A creature trapped within a cell can escape using magic that permits planar travel. Otherwise, the creature is confined to the cell until freed. If the mirror traps a creature but its twelve extradimensional cells are already occupied, the mirror frees one trapped creature at random to accommodate the new prisoner. A freed creature appears in an unoccupied space within sight of the mirror but facing away from it. If the mirror is shattered, all creatures it contains are freed and appear in unoccupied spaces near it. While within 5 feet of the mirror, you can use an action to speak the name of one creature trapped in it or call out a particular cell by number. The creature named or contained in the named cell appears as an image on the mirror's surface. You and the creature can then communicate normally.
In a similar way, you can use an action to speak a second command word and free one creature trapped in the mirror. The freed creature appears, along with its possessions, in the unoccupied space nearest to the mirror and facing away from it.",,
Amulet of the Planes,Necklace,Very rare,90000 gp,Attunement,"While wearing this amulet, you can use an action to name a location that you are familiar with on another plane of existence. Then make a DC 15 Intelligence check. On a successful check, you cast the plane shift spell. On a failure, you and each creature and object within 15 feet of you travel to a random destination. Roll a d100. On a 1-60, you travel to a random location on the plane you named. On a 61-100, you travel to a randomly determined plane of existence.",,
Potion of Stone Giant Strength,Potion,Legendary,290000 gp,,"When you drink this potion, your Strength score changes to 29 for 1 hour. The potion has no effect on you if your Strength is equal to or greater than that score. You also gain resistance to bludgeonning damage while the potion is in effect. This potion's transparent liquid has floating in it a sliver of fingernail from a giant of the appropriate type.",,
Sovereign Glue,Potion,Legendary,250000 gp,,"This viscous, milky-white substance can form a permanent adhesive bond between any two objects. It must be stored in a jar or flask that has been coated inside with oil of slipperiness. When found, a container contains 1d6 + 1 ounces. One ounce of the glue can cover a 1-foot square surface. The glue takes 1 minute to set. Once it has done so, the bond it creates can be broken only by the application of universal solvent or oil of etherealness, or with a wish spell.",,
Universal Solvent,Potion,Legendary,250000 gp,,"This tube holds milky liquid with a strong alcohol smell. You can use an action to pour the contents of the tube onto a surface within reach. The liquid instantly dissolves up to 1 square foot of adhesive it touches, including sovereign glue.",,
Iron Horn of Valhalla,Wondrous item,Legendary,500000 gp,,"You can use an action to blow this horn. In response, 5d4 + 5 warrior spirits from the Valhalla appear within 60 feet of you. They use the statistics of a berserker. They return to Valhalla after 1 hour or when they drop to 0 hit points. Once you use the horn, it can't be used again until 7 days have passed. If you blow the horn without meeting its requirement (proficiency with all martial weapons), the summoned berserkers attack you. If you meet the requirement, they are friendly to you and your companions and follow your commands.",,
Defender,Weapon (sword),Legendary,250000 gp,Attunement,"Well-balanced sword of simple, yet elegant design. While holding it, you can feel the quality of the craftsmanship. You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. The first time you attack with the sword on each of your turns, you can transfer some or all of the sword's bonus to your Armor Class, instead of using the bonus on any attacks that turn. For example, you could reduce the bonus to your attack and damage rolls to +1 and gain a +2 bonus to AC. The adjusted bonuses remain in effect until the start of your next turn, although you must hold the sword to gain a bonus to AC from it.",,
Iron Flask,Wondrous item,Legendary,700000 gp,,"This iron bottle has a brass stopper. You can use an action to speak the flask's command word, targeting a creature that you can see within 60 feet of you. If the target is native to a plane of existence other than the one you're on, the target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be trapped in the flask. If the target has been trapped by the flask before, it has advantage on the saving throw. Once trapped, a creature remains in the flask until released. The flask can hold only one creature at a time. A creature trapped in the flask doesn't need to breathe, eat, or drink and doesn't age. You can use an action to remove the flask's stopper and release the creature the flask contains. The creature is friendly to you and your companions for 1 hour and obeys your commands for that duration. If you give no commands or give it a command that is likely to result in its death, it defends itself but otherwise takes no actions. At the end of the duration, the creature acts in accordance with its normal disposition and alignment. An identify spell reveals that a creature is inside the flask, but the only way to determine the type of creature is to open the flask. A newly discovered bottle might already contain a creature chosen by the DM or determined randomly. https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/om.php?vo=iron-flask ",,
Tough Skin: hide of the barbarian,Armor (hide),Legendary,300000 gp,,"This medium armor consists of thick furs and pelts. While wearing it, you don't look like you know nothing, and you have a bonus to AC of +3.",,
Pool of Mind Reading,Wondrous Item,Legendary,350000 gp,Attunement,"Flat bowl made of smoky cristal. When water is poured into it, it is possible to use it to cast the Scrying spell (save DC 17) while looking into it. You can use an action to cast the detect thoughts spell (save DC 17) while you are scrying with the crystal ball, targeting creatures you can see within 30 feet of the spell's sensor. You don't need to concentrate on this detect thoughts to maintain it during its duration, but it ends if scrying ends.",,
Cristal Ball of True Seeing,Wondrous Item,Legendary,350000 gp,Attunement,"Cristal ball the size of a fist, made of exceptionally regular and clear cristal. While touching it, you can cast the scrying spell (save DC 17) with it. While scrying with the crystal ball, you have truesight with a radius of 120 feet centered on the spell's sensor.",,
Ioun Stone of Mastery,Equipment (headgear),Legendary,450000 gp,Attunement," Upon attunement, this pale green prism fixes itself magically in the middle of your forehead and increases your proficiency bonus by 1.",,
Hammer of Thunderbolts,Weapon (hammer),Legendary,500000 gp,,"You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. Giant's Bane (requires attunement). You must be wearing a belt of giant strength (any variety) and gauntlets of ogre power to attune to this weapon. The attunement ends if you take off either of those items. While you are attuned to this weapon and holding it, your Strength score increases by 4 and can exceed 20, but not 30. When you roll a 20 on an attack roll made with this weapon against a giant, the giant must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or die. The hammer also has 5 charges. While attuned to it, you can expend 1 charge and make a ranged weapon attack with the hammer, hurling it as if it had the thrown property with a normal range of 20 feet and a long range of 60 feet. If the attack hits, the hammer unleashes a thunderclap audible out to 300 feet. The target and every creature within 30 feet of it must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of your next turn. The hammer regains 1d4 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn.",,
Holy Avenger,Weapon (sword),Legendary,500000 gp,Attunement by a paladin,"Platinum sword with beautifully designed wing hand guards, fine carvings of flame pattenrs on the blade and pale sapphires included in the hilt. You gain a +3 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. When you hit a fiend or an undead with it, that creature takes an extra 2d10 radiant damage. While you hold the drawn sword, it creates an aura in a 10-foot radius around you. You and all creatures friendly to you in the aura have advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects. If you have 17 or more levels in the paladin class, the radius of the aura increases to 30 feet.",,
Ring of Invisibility,Equipment (ring),Legendary,500000 gp,Attunement,"A ring of simple design that would be without pretention if it were not made of platinum. While wearing this ring, you can turn invisible as an action. Anything you are wearing or carrying is invisible with you. You remain invisible until the ring is removed, until you attack or cast a spell, or until you use a bonus action to become visible again.",,
Ring of Air Elemental Command,Equipment (ring),Legendary,700000 gp,Attunement,"Double-ciffed silver ring joined by two thin chains and beautifully engraved of arcane markings. While wearing this ring, you have advantage on attack rolls against air elementals, and they have disadvantage on attack rolls against you. The ring has 5 charges. It regains 1d4 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. Spells cast from the ring have a save DC of 17. You can expend 2 of the ring's charges to cast dominate monster on an air elemental. In addition, when you fall, you descend 60 feet per round and take no damage from falling. You can also speak and understand Auran. Exalted: If you help slay an air elemental while attuned to the ring, you gain access to the following additional properties: • You have resistance to lightning damage; • You have a flying speed equal to your walking speed and can hover; • You can cast the following spells from the ring, expending the necessary number of charges: chain lightning (3 charges), gust of wind (2 charges), or wind wall (1 charge).",,
Ring of Earth Elemental Command,Equipment (ring),Legendary,700000 gp,Attunement,"Double-ciffed silver ring joined by two thin chains and beautifully engraved of arcane markings. While wearing this ring, you have advantage on attack rolls against earth elementals, and they have disadvantage on attack rolls against you. The ring has 5 charges. It regains 1d4 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. Spells cast from the ring have a save DC of 17. You can expend 2 of the ring's charges to cast dominate monster on an earth elemental. In addition, you can move in difficult terrain that is composed of rubble, rocks, or dirt as if it were normal terrain. You can also speak and understand Terran. Exalted: If you help slay an earth elemental while attuned to the ring, you gain access to the following additional properties: • You have resistance to acid damage; • You can move through solid earth or rock as if those areas were difficult terrain. If you end your turn there, you are shunted out to the nearest unoccupied space you last occupied; • You can cast the following spells from the ring, expending the necessary number of charges:  stone shape (2 charges), stoneskin (3 charges), or wall of stone (3 charges).",,
Ring of Fire Elemental Command,Equipment (ring),Legendary,700000 gp,Attunement,"Double-ciffed silver ring joined by two thin chains and beautifully engraved of arcane markings. While wearing this ring, you have advantage on attack rolls against fire elementals, and they have disadvantage on attack rolls against you. The ring has 5 charges. It regains 1d4 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. Spells cast from the ring have a save DC of 17. You can expend 2 of the ring's charges to cast dominate monster on a fire elemental. In addition, you have resistance to fire damage. You can also speak and understand Ignan. Exalted: If you help slay a fire elemental while attuned to the ring, you gain access to the following additional properties: • You are immune to fire damage; • You can move through solid earth or rock as if those areas were difficult terrain. If you end your turn there, you are shunted out to the nearest unoccupied space you last occupied; • You can cast the following spells from the ring, expending the necessary number of charges:  burning hands (1 charge), fireball (2 charges), and wall of fire (3 charges).",,
Ring of Water Elemental Command,Equipment (ring),Legendary,700000 gp,Attunement,"Double-ciffed silver ring joined by two thin chains and beautifully engraved of arcane markings. While wearing this ring, you have advantage on attack rolls against water elementals, and they have disadvantage on attack rolls against you. The ring has 5 charges. It regains 1d4 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. Spells cast from the ring have a save DC of 17. You can expend 2 of the ring's charges to cast dominate monster on a water elemental. In addition, you can stand on and walk across liquid surfaces as if they were solid ground. You can also speak and understand Aquan. Exalted: If you help slay a water elemental while attuned to the ring, you gain access to the following additional properties: • You can breathe underwater and have a swimming speed equal to your walking speed; • You can cast the following spells from the ring, expending the necessary number of charges: create or destroy water (1 charge), control water (3 charges), ice storm (2 charges), or wall of ice (3 charges).",,
Armor of invulnerability,Armor (plate),Legendary,500000 gp,Attunement,"AC 18. You have resistance to nonmagical damage while you wear this armor. Additionally, you can use an action to make yourself immune to nonmagical damage for 10 minutes or until you are no longer wearing the armor. Once this special action is used, it can't be used again until the next dawn. You have disavantage on stealth checks.",,
Ring of Spell Turning,Equipment (ring),Legendary,500000 gp,Attunement,"Golden ring set with a rectangle mirror. While wearing this ring, you have advantage on saving throws against any spell that targets only you (not in an area of effect). In addition, if you roll a 20 for the save and the spell is 7th level or lower, the spell has no effect on you and instead targets the caster, using the slot level, spell save DC, attack bonus, and spellcasting ability of the caster.",,
Shard of Telepathy,Wondrous item,Legendary,600000 gp,Attunement,"Magical ice shard. It is long like a hand and shaped roughly like a tear. It cannot be melted by natural heat. While touching it, you can cast the scrying spell (save DC 17) with it. While scrying with the crystal ball, you can communicate telepathically with creatures you can see within 30 feet of the spell's sensor. You can also use an action to cast the suggestion spell (save DC 17) through the sensor on one of those creatures. You don't need to concentrate on this suggestion to maintain it during its duration, but it ends if scrying ends. Once used, the suggestion power of the shard can't be used again until the next dawn.",,
Robe of the Archmagi,Equipment (robe),Legendary,700000 gp,"Attunement by a sorcerer, a warlock or a wizard of the corresponding alignment","This elegant garment is made from exquisite cloth of white, gray, or black and adorned with silvery runes. The robe's color corresponds to the alignment for which the item was created. A white robe was made for good, gray for neutral, and black for evil. You gain these benefits while wearing the robe: • If you aren't wearing armor, your base Armor Class is 15 + your Dexterity modifier; • You have advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects; • Your spell save DC and spell attack bonus each increase by 2.",,
Staff of the Magi,Weapon (staff),Legendary,600000 gp,"Attunement by a sorcerer, warlock or wizard","Staff sculpted out of a clear wood. It is straight and sophisticatedly carved with arcane runes. This staff can be wielded as a magic quarterstaff that grants a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. While you hold it, you gain a +2 bonus to spell attack rolls. The staff has 50 charges for the following properties. It regains 4d6 + 2 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 20, the staff regains 1d12 + 1 charges. Spells absorbtion, spells and retributive strike. https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/om.php?vo=staff-of-the-magi ",,
Plate Armor of Etherealness,Armor (plate),Legendary,700000 gp,Attunement,"While you're wearing this armor, you can speak its command word as an action to gain the effect of the etherealness spell, which last for 10 minutes or until you remove the armor or use an action to speak the command word again. This property of the armor can't be used again until the next dawn. (Heavy armor, AC 18, required Strength score 15, Disadvantage on Stealth)""",,
Ring of Djinni Summoning,Equipment (ring),Legendary,500000 gp,Attunement,"Ostentatious gold ring mounted with a uniquely large and clear sapphire. While wearing this ring, you can speak its command word as an action to summon a particular djinni from the Elemental Plane of Air. The djinni appears in an unoccupied space you choose within 120 feet of you. It remains as long as you concentrate (as if concentrating on a spell), to a maximum of 1 hour, or until it drops to 0 hit points. It then returns to its home plane. While summoned, the djinni is friendly to you and your companions. It obeys any commands you give it, no matter what language you use. If you fail to command it, the djinni defends itself against attackers but takes no other actions. After the djinni departs, it can't be summoned again for 24 hours, and the ring becomes nonmagical if the djinni dies.",,
Yggdrasil's Sap,Drug (drink),Legendary,90000 gp,,"A tiny cristal vial contains one drop of a thick, shimmery golden liquid. A legendary drug that causes you to see into your future. This future is usually the users own death if they don't pass the DC 15 Constitution saving throw to not die from it.",,
Deck of Many Things,Wondrous item,Legenday,-,,"Usually found in a box or pouch, this deck contains a number of cards made of ivory or vellum. Most (75 percent of these decks have only thirteen cards, but the rest have twenty-two. Before you draw a card, you must declare how many cards you intend to draw and then draw them randomly (you can use an altered deck of playing cards to simulate the deck). Any cards drawn in excess of this number have no effect. Otherwise, as soon as you draw a card from the deck, its magic takes effect. You must draw each card no more than 1 hour after the previous draw. If you fail to draw the chosen number, the remaining number of cards fly from the deck on their own and take effect all at once. Once a card is drawn, it fades from existence. Unless the card is the Fool or the Jester, the card reappears in the deck, making it possible to draw the same card twice. https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/om.php?vo=deck-of-many-things ",,
Luck Blade,Weapon (dagger),Legendary,900000 gp,Attunement,"Curved-blade dagger with a brass hilt shaped to resemble clouds. In the blade are incised three shiny clear blue gems. You gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magic weapon. While the sword is on your person, you also gain a +1 bonus to saving throws. Luck. If the sword is on your person, you can call on its luck (no action required) to reroll one attack roll, ability check, or saving throw you dislike. You must use the second roll. This property can't be used again until the next dawn. Wish. The sword has 1d4 - 1 charges. While holding it, you can use an action to expend 1 charge and cast the wish spell from it. This property can't be used again until the next dawn. The sword loses this property if it has no charges.",,
Talisman of Ultimate Evil,Equipment (necklace),Legendary,600000 gp,Attunement by a creature of evil alignment,"Dark iron chain passing through bones with a shrinked horned skull as a pendant. This item symbolizes unrepentant evil. A creature that is neither good nor evil in alignment takes 6d6 necrotic damage upon touching the talisman. A good creature takes 8d6 necrotic damage upon touching the talisman. Either sort of creature takes the damage again each time it ends its turn holding or carrying the talisman. If you are an evil cleric or paladin, you can use the talisman as a holy symbol, and you gain a +2 bonus to spell attack rolls while you wear or hold it. The talisman has 6 charges. If you are wearing or holding it, you can use an action to expend 1 charge from the talisman and choose one creature you can see on the ground within 120 feet of you. If the target is of good alignment, a flaming fissure opens under it. The target must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or fall into the fissure and be destroyed, leaving no remains. The fissure then closes, leaving no trace of its existence. When you expend the last charge, the talisman dissolves into foul-smelling slime and is destroyed.",,
Talisman of Pure Good,Equipment (necklace),Legendary,700000 gp,Attunement by a creature of good alignment,"Golden flaming circle pendant on a gold chain. This talisman is a mighty symbol of goodness. A creature that is neither good nor evil in alignment takes 6d6 radiant damage upon touching the talisman. An evil creature takes 8d6 radiant damage upon touching the talisman. Either sort of creature takes the damage again each time it ends its turn holding or carrying the talisman. If you are a good cleric or paladin, you can use the talisman as a holy symbol, and you gain a +2 bonus to spell attack rolls while you wear or hold it. The talisman has 7 charges. If you are wearing or holding it, you can use an action to expend 1 charge from it and choose one creature you can see on the ground within 120 feet of you. If the target is of evil alignment, a flaming fissure opens under it. The target must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity saving throw or fall into the fissure and be destroyed, leaving no remains. The fissure then closes, leaving no trace of its existence. When you expend the last charge, the talisman disperses into motes of golden light and is destroyed.",,
Ring of Three Wishes,Equipment (ring),Legendary,900000 gp,,"Thick, ostentatious gold ring on which are set three unpolished diamonds. While wearing this ring, you can use an action to expend 1 of its 3 charges to cast the wish spell from it. The ring becomes nonmagical when you use the last charge.",,
Sphere of Annihilation,Wondrous item,Legendary,500000 gp,,"This 2-foot-diameter black sphere is a hole in the multiverse, hovering in space and stabilized by a magical field surrounding it. The sphere obliterates all matter it passes through and all matter that passes through it. Artifacts are the exception. Unless an artifact is susceptible to damage from a sphere of annihilation, it passes through the sphere unscathed. Anything else that touches the sphere but isn't wholly engulfed and obliterated by it takes 4d10 force damage. The sphere is stationary until someone controls it. If you are within 60 feet of an uncontrolled sphere, you can use an action to make a DC 25 Intelligence (Arcana) check. On a success, the sphere levitates in one direction of your choice, up to a number of feet equal to 5 x your Intelligence modifier (minimum 5 feet). On a failure, the sphere moves 10 feet toward you. A creature whose space the sphere enters must succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or be touched by it, taking 4d10 force damage. If you attempt to control a sphere that is under another creature's control, you make an Intelligence (Arcana) check contested by the other creature's Intelligence (Arcana) check. The winner of the contest gains control of the sphere and can levitate it as normal. If the sphere comes into contact with a planar portal, such as that created by the gate spell, or an extradimensional space, such as that within a portable hole, the DM determines randomly what happens, using the following table. https://www.aidedd.org/dnd/om.php?vo=sphere-of-annihilation ",,
Talisman of the Sphere,Equipment (necklace),Legendary,500000 gp,Attunement,"Thick, dark iron chain with an obsidian sphere as pendant. When you make an Intelligence (Arcana) check to control a sphere of annihilation while you are holding this talisman, you double your proficiency bonus on the check. In addition, when you start your turn with control over a sphere of annihilation, you can use an action to levitate it 10 feet plus a number of additional feet equal to 10 x your Intelligence modifier.",,